FADE IN:

EXT. PHOENIX, ARIZONA - (DAY) - HELICOPTER SHOT

Above Midtown section of the city. It is early afternoon, a

hot mid-summer day. The city is sun-sunblanched white and

its drifted-up noises are muted in blanched their own echoes.

We fly low, heading in a downtown direction, passing over

traffic-clogged streets, parking lots, white business

buildings, neatly patterned residential districts. As we

approach downtown section, the character of the city begins

to change. It is darker and shabby with age and industry. We

see railroad tracks, smokestacks, wholesale fruit-and-

vegetable markets, old municipal buildings, empty lots.

vegetable The very geography seems to give us a climate of

nefariousness, of back-doorness, dark and shadowy. And secret.

We fly lower and faster now, as if seeking out a specific

location. A skinny, high old hotel comes into view. On its

exposed brick side great painted letters advertise "Transients-

Low Weekly Rates-Radio in Every Room." We pause long enough

to establish the shoddy character of this hotel. Its open,

curtainless windows, its silent resigned look so

characteristic of such hole-and-corner hotels. We move forward

with purposefulness and-toward a certain window. The sash is

raised as high as it can go, but the shade is pulled down to

three or four inches of the inside sill, as if the occupants

of the room within wanted privacy but needed air. We are

close now, so that only the lower half of the window frame

is in shot. No sounds come from within the room.

Suddenly, we tip downward, go to the narrow space between

shade and sill, peep into the room.

A young woman is stretched out on the mussed bed. She wears

a full slip, stockings, no shoes. She lies in and attitude

of physical relaxation, but her face, seen in the dimness of

the room, betrays a certain inner-tension, worrisome

conflicts. She is MARY CRANE, an tension, attractive girl

nearing the end of her twenties and her rope.

A man stands beside the bed, only the lower half of his figure

visible. We hold on this tableau for a long moment, then

start forward. As we pass under the window shade,

INT. THE HOTEL ROOM - (DAY)

A small room, a slow fan buzzing on a shelf above the narrow

bed. A card of hotel rules is pasted on the mirror above the

bureau. An unopened suitcase and a woman's large, straw open-

top handbag are on the bureau.

On the table beside the bed there are a container of Coco-

Cola and an unwrapped, untouched egg-salad sandwich. There

is no radio.

The man standing by the bed, wearing only trousers, T-shirt

and sox, is SAM LOOMIS, a good-looking, sensual shirt man

with warm humorous eyes and a compelling smile. He is blotting

his neck and face with a thin towel, and is staring down at

Mary, a small sweet smile playing about his mouth. Mary keeps

her face turned away from him.

After a moment, Sam drops the towel, sits on the bed, leans

over and takes Mary into his arms, kisses her long and warmly,

holds her with a firm possessiveness. The kiss is disturbed

and finally interrupted by the buzzing closeness of an

inconsiderate fly. Sam smiles, pulls away enough to allow

Mary to relax again against the pillow. He studies her, frowns

at her unresponsiveness, then speaks in a low, intimate,

playful voice.

Mary looks at his smile, has to respond, pulls him to her,

kisses him. Then, and without breaking the kiss, she swings

her legs over the side of the bed, toe-searches around, finds

her shoes, slips her feet into searches them. And finally

pulls away and sits up.

She rises, goes to the bureau, takes a pair of small earrings

out of her bag, begins putting them on, not bothering or

perhaps not wanting to look at herself in the mirror. Sam

watches her, concerned but unable to inhibit his cheery,

humorous good mood. Throughout remainder of this scene, they

occupy themselves with dressing, hair-combing, etc.

He breaks off, his cheeriness dissolved, goes to the window,

tries to raise the shade. It sticks. He pulls at it.

It comes down entirely, and the hot sun glares into the room,

revealing it in all its shabbiness and sordidness as if

corroborating Mary's words and attitude. Sam kicks at the

fallen shade, laughs in frustration, grabs on to his humor

again.

She stares at him, surprised at his willingness to continue

the affair on her terms, as girls are so often surprised

when they discover men will continue to want them even after

the sexual bait has been pulled in. Sam smiles reassuringly,

places his hands gently on her arms, speaks with gentle and

simple sincerity.

He moves away and again the weight of his pain and problems

crushes away his good humor. There is a quiet moment.

He looks at her, long, pulls her close, kisses her lightly,

looks out the window and stares at the wide sky.

Mary goes out quickly, closing door behind her. As Sam stares

down at his shoeless feet,

EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET - (DAY) - HIGH ANGLE

Shooting down at hotel entrance. Mary comes out, walks quickly

to a parked cab, gets in. The cab zooms up the awful street.

EXT. LOWERY REAL ESTATE OFFICE - (DAY)

A small, moderately successful office off the main street. A

cab pulls up at the curb. We see Mary get out of cab, pay

driver, cross pavement to the office door.

INT. OUTER OFFICE - (DAY)

Mary enters office, crosses to her desk, sits down, rubs her

temples, finally looks over at Caroline, a girl in the last

of her teens.

She rises, starts for Mary's desk, pills in hand.

She breaks off, distracted by the SOUND of the door opening.

MR. LOWERY and his oil-lease client, TOM CASSIDY enter the

office. Lowery is a pleasant, worried-faced man, big and a

trifle pompous. Cassidy is very faced loud and has a lunch-

hour load on. He is a gross man, exuding a kind of pitiful

vulgarity.

Lowery flashes an embarrassed smile at Mary, tries to lead

Cassidy toward the private office.

Cassidy pauses beside Mary's desk, hooks a haunch onto the

desktop, smiles a wet smile at Mary.

Mary glances, cannot bring herself to smile or make some

remark, continues sorting out the deed copies, tries to ignore

the man's hot-breath closeness.

He takes out of his inside pocket, two separate bundles of

new $100 bills and throws them onto the desk, under Mary's

nose. Caroline's eyes go wide at the sight of the glorious

green bundles of bills, and she comes close to the desk.

Cassidy leans terribly close to Mary, flicks through the

bills, laughs wickedly.

He rises, reels toward Lowery's office, pauses, turns, speaks

to Mary, meaningfully.

Lowery starts after him, pauses, turns to Mary. Cassidy has

gone into Lower's office.

He starts quickly away when it looks like Cassidy is going

to come and pull him bodily into the office. When the men

are gone and the door is closed, Caroline picks up a bundle,

smiles at it.

Mary has put one bundle into a large envelope and takes the

other from Caroline. When the bills are away, she puts the

filled envelope in her handbag, notices the remaining deed

copies on her desk, picks them up, goes to the private office

door, knocks, starts to open door as:

INT. LOWERY'S PRIVATE OFFICE - (DAY)

Mary opens door, looks in. Cassidy is drinking from a large

tumbler, winks at her without pausing in his drinking. Mary

remains on threshold a moment, then crosses to the desk,

talking as she goes.

Mary goes back out into the outer office, closes door.

INT. OUTER OFFICE - (DAY)

Mary goes to her desk, takes the handbag, checks to make

sure the money-filled envelope is tucked well down into it.

During this:

She goes to the door.

INT. MARY'S BEDROOM - (DAY)

A double bed in the foreground. We just see the far side as

the CAMERA SHOOTS across. Mary enters the scene, clad only

in her slip. Perhaps she is about to get into bed. Behind

her is an open closet, but too dark inside for us to see any

contents. As Mary turns to the closet the CAMERA LOWERS to

show a close view of the $40,000 in the envelope on our side

of the bed.

Mary takes a dress from the closet and starts to put it on

as the CAMERA RETREATS to reveal a packed but not yet closed

suitcase also on the bed. Mary zips up her dress and then

brings some final garments from the closet.

She comes around to the suitcase and puts them on the top.

Mary works with haste and in tension, as if acting on an

impulse which might vanish as quickly as it came.

The suitcase filled now, she checks around the room, then

takes her handbag to the bed, puts in the money-filled

envelope, and then slams the suitcase shut. Then filled she

looks at her small bedroom desk, goes to it, removes a small

file-envelope from one of the drawers. It is one of those

brown envelopes in which one keeps important papers and

policies and certificates. She checks its contents briefly,

puts it on the bed, opens another desk drawer, takes out her

bank book, tosses it on the bed. Then she packs both the

file-envelope and the bank book, into her handbag, takes one

quick last look around the room, picks up the handbag and

the suitcase and goes out of the room.

EXT. MARY'S GARAGE - (DAY)

A two-car garage. One car is gone. Mary's car is parked in

the driveway. The CAMERA is low enough so that we can easily

read the Arizona number plate in the foreground.

Mary comes out of house, starts for the trunk, intending to

put the suitcase in, changes her mind, places the suitcase

and her handbag on the front seat, gets in, starts the car,

begins to back out of driveway.

EXT. MAIN STREET IN MIDTOWN PHOENIX - (DAY)

We are close on Mary's car, shooting in at her troubled,

guilty face. She seems to be driving with that excess care

of one who does not wish to be stopped for a minor traffic

irregularity. She stops for a red light at a main

intersection.

FROM MARY'S VIEWPOINT - (DAY)

We see Lowery and Cassidy crossing the street, passing right

in front of Mary's car.

MARY'S CAR - (DAY)

Mary freezes.

EXT. MAIN STREET IN MIDTOWN PHOENIX - (DAY)

Cassidy, glancing into car, sees Mary, lets out a cheery

exclamation, elbows Lowery. Lowery turns, sees Mary, smiles

pleasantly, pulls Cassidy on.

MARY'S CAR - (DAY)

Mary watches the entire exchange with a look of stony horror

on her face.

EXT. MAIN STREET IN MIDTOWN PHOENIX - (DAY)

Now we look closely at Lowery. As he reaches the curb, a

small confusion brightens his face. He remembers that Mary

intended to "spend the weekend in bed." He considers,

curiously, turns, looks back at her, a slight frown on his

face.

MARY'S CAR - (DAY)

Mary sees the pause and the look.

EXT. MAIN STREET IN MIDTOWN PHOENIX - (DAY)

For a moment it even looks as if Lowery might be meaning to

cross back to the car.

MARY'S CAR - (DAY)

Mary's tension is unbearable. And at that moment we hear the

shrill shriek of the traffic cop's whistle.

Mary zooms the car away.

EXT. HIGHWAY - (DAY)

Mary in car, driving, safely away from town. Her look is

less tense now, and more purposeful. After a moment, she

checks the fuel gauge, frowns, looks along highway for a gas

station.

MARY'S CAR - (DAY)

Approaching and leaving city limits.

MARY - (DAY)

Looks at gas gauge.

C.U. GAS GAUGE - (DAY)

EXT. A GAS STATION - (DAY)

We see Mary's car drive in, come to a stop. There are no

other cars about, this being a gas station off the main

highway, and the attendant is obviously in the shack. Mary

looks worried about having to make this stop, keeps her face

turned away from the shack, not wishing it to be seen.

No one comes and for a moment Mary considers driving on, as

if the emptiness of the station were a warning, an omen that

she should listen to. But the gas registers almost empty.

She has to blow her horn.

A YOUNG MAN comes out of the shack, starts toward her car.

At that moment, we HEAR the RINGING of the TELEPHONE in the

shack. The Attendant walks a few steps further, toward Mary's

car, then decides to go back and answer the phone. The phone's

insistent ringing unnerves Mary.

She starts her car, zooms off.

We see the Attendant, phone in hand, in the doorway of shack.

He looks after the departing car with little or no expression.

CAR

The car grows smaller as it races up the road. The sun is

setting. There is something vaguely ominous about the

darkening sky into which the car seems to be disappearing.

MARY IN CAR - (NIGHT)

The oncoming headlights hurt Mary's eyes. She is getting

sleepy and her vision is blurring. Her eyes close,

involuntarily, snap open again. She stretches than wide, as

if forcing them to stay open. The oncoming lights seem to

glare to a point beyond endurance. She murmurs "Sam - Sam."

EXT. ROAD SHOULDER - (DAWN)

We see Mary's car, dim in the early dawn, tilted on the soft

shoulder of the road, looking somehow sad and pathetic, like

a child's thrown-away toy. And from this angle it would appear

that the car is empty.

After a moment, during which there are no other vehicles

passing, we see, coming from the far distance, a HIGHWAY

PATROLMAN in a patrol car. He passes Mary's car, notes its

apparent emptiness, U-turns, comes back up behind the car.

He gets out and approaches the driver's side window.

EXT. MARY'S CAR - (DAWN)

The Patrolman looks down into the car.

INT. CAR (DAWN) FROM HIS VIEWPOINT

Mary turns with a start, sits up, is startled and unnerved

by the sight of the Patrolman, and, as if by automatic reflex,

turns the ignition and presses down on the starter.

EXT. CAR (DAWN)

The Patrolman holds up his hand.

Mary slams down on the brake, tries to pull herself together.

The Patrolman raps again, less gently.

Reluctantly, Mary rolls down the window. The Patrolman studies

her for a moment.

Mary seems about to object, thinks better of it, turns off

the ignition.

Mary starts the car, her face turned as if she wishes the

matter were all settled and the Patrolman had already gone.

The Patrolman isn't exactly one of those civil servants who

demands a thank-you, but he does feel her manner is a bit

too abrupt. He calls:

The Patrolman gazes at her a moment, then:

Mary pulls her handbag up from the floor, where she'd placed

it when she stretched out for sleep. She puts her hand in

it, rummages for her wallet, cannot find it.

The Patrolman is staring at her. She glances at him nervously,

pokes in her bag a bit more, sighs, realizes she'll have to

remove some of its contents. Nervously, badly controlling

her fear, she takes out the money-filled envelope, and then

the important papers envelope, filled then a couple of other

items, places them on the seat, finally finds her wallet,

opens it, hands it to him. He looks at the wallet, then at

the car.

EXT. ROAD SHOULDER - (DAWN)

The Patrolman walks around to the front of the car, checks

the license plate, and returns.

INT. MARY'S CAR - (DAWN)

The Patrolman peers in, checks the car registration on the

steering wheel, returns Mary's wallet.

She takes it, looks at him for a flicker of a moment.

He says nothing. She starts ahead, fast.

EXT. ROAD SHOULDER - (DAWN)

The Patrolman stares after Mary as she drives off, then starts

back to his automobile.

MARY IN CAR - (DAWN)

She is quite shaken, realizes she caused herself a great

deal of trouble and placed herself in unnecessary danger.

She is disturbed and angry and frightened at her inability

to act normally under the pressure of guilt. As she drives,

she glances into her rear-view mirror.

MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR - (DAWN)

The Patrolman is following in his automobile, keeping behind

her at a matched speed.

MARY IN CAR - (DAWN)

She glances out at her surroundings.

MARY'S POV - (DAWN)

The Freeway ahead.

EXT. MARY'S CAR - (DAWN)

She suddenly turns off the highway.

MARY IN CAR - (DAWN)

She checks her mirror.

MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR - (DAWN)

The Patrolman is no longer following, has not turned off

after her.

MARY IN CAR - (DAWN)

She breathes a sigh of relief, thinks a moment, makes a quick

decision.

EXT. USED CAR LOT - (DAY)

The big sign reads "California Charlie - Automobile Paradise."

We see Mary's car drive onto the lot and stop. Mary gets out

of the car, glances toward the lot office, turns her attention

to the line of cars, notice the California licence plates on

all of them. The CAR DEALER calls out from his office:

Mary nods, starts walking along the line of cars as if making

a selection. Her eye is caught by the iron newspaper stand

on the corner, just outside the lot.

She stares at the papers, turns away, as if what she is

fearing would have to be impossible, then, having to satisfy

herself, goes to the stand, drops a dime in the iron slot,

picks up a LOS ANGELES newspaper, starts back into the car

lot as she glances worried at the front page. As she goes,

we see, coming up the street toward the lot, the same

PATROLMAN. He sees Mary, slows, swerves over to the opposite

side of the street, stops by the curb. Mary, engrossed in

the newspaper, and walking back ease the lot, does not see

the Patrolman.

The car dealer is out on the lot now, standing and waiting

for Mary. As she approaches, lost in her newspaper, he smiles.

She stops suddenly, almost with a gasp. She has seen the

Patrolman.

THE PATROLMAN - MARY'S POV - (DAY)

He is staring over at her, his face dispassionate.

EXT. USED CAR LOT - (DAY)

Mary has to force herself to look away.

He starts into Mary's car. She looks at him, in near panic,

wanting to skip the whole thing. Torn, wondering if the

presence of the Patrolman doesn't negate the value of changing

cars, wondering how she can get away, wondering if she'll be

followed, or if the Patrolman will go away if she does stay

here.

All these panic-fears rush her mind and she can do nothing.

The Car Dealer has driven her car into the garage. She stands

in the middle of the lot, feeling like a shooting target.

She looks toward the garage.

THE GARAGE - MARY'S POV - (DAY)

Mary's car is in it.

EXT. USED CAR LOT - (DAY)

Mary decides she cannot back out now without arousing further

suspicion, is compelled to look again at the Patrolman.

THE PATROLMAN - MARY'S POV - (DAY)

He still watches. With a self-angry sigh of resignment, she

goes to a close car, looks at it. The Car Dealer is returning.

As the car dealer looks at her in amazement, she reaches

into her bag, feels the money-filled envelope, pauses.

THE PATROLMAN - MARY'S POV - (DAY)

He still sits, his motor throbbing, his face quiet.

EXT. THE USED CAR LOT - (DAY)

Mary goes into the office building.

INT. LADIES ROOM - (DAY)

Mary enters, locks door, takes envelope out of her handbag,

extracts one bundle of bills from the envelope, counts off

five, puts the bundle back into the envelope and the envelope

back into the bag. Then she remembers, takes out the important

papers envelope, goes through it, finds several papers having

to do with her car, takes them all out, puts back the

envelope, starts out of the ladies Room.

EXT. THE USED CAR LOT - (DAY)

The Car Dealer has moved the car of her choice out of the

line. It stands in the clearing.

He starts toward the office building. Mary follows, closely,

anxiously. She glances, sees:

THE PATROLMAN - MARY'S POV - (DAY)

He is still at the far curb.

EXT. USED CAR LOT - (DAY)

The Car Dealer goes into his office. Mary follows.

THE PATROLMAN - (DAY)

A second later, he starts his automobile, checks traffic,

comes across the street, slowly, and drives onto the lot. He

pauses a moment, then drives across the lot, passing the

office, going on to the other exit, stops there as Mary's

car is driven back onto the lot.

The MECHANIC stops Mary's car, hops out, waves to the

Patrolman. The Patrolman waves back, goes on a bit until he

is behind Mary's car, stops again, looks over at the office.

In a moment, Mary comes out, hurries across to her new car,

gets in, starts the motor. The Mechanic yells:

Mary pauses, turns, sees the Patrolman, then the Mechanic.

Her face goes white. She doesn't know which man called her.

Then the Mechanic waves, starts forward with her suitcase.

The Mechanic smiles, throws the suitcase in. Mary zooms off.

As she drives out of lot we see the Mechanic, the Car Dealer

and the Patrolman all looking after her.

MARY IN NEW CAR ON ROUTE

Mary is driving tensely. She checks the rear-view mirror, is

more shocked than pleased when she sees...

MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR

No sign of the Patrolman.

MARY IN NEW CAR ON ROUTE

She turns her face, looks out at the highway.

ROUTE 99 - MARY'S POV

It is heavy with traffic.

MARY IN NEW CAR ON ROUTE

Again she checks the mirror and although...

MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR

There is still no sign of the Patrolman.

MARY IN NEW CAR ON ROUTE

She cannot relax or feel safe, cannot convince herself that

nothing will come of the man's watching and suspicions.

CAMERA IS CLOSE on Mary's face now, recording her anxiety,

her fears. Her guilt shines bright in her eyes and she is a

person unaccustomed to containing this much guilt in this

realistic a situation. Suddenly, we hear the SOUND of the

Used Car Dealer's laugh, hear it as clearly as Mary hears it

in her imagination. The "imagined voice" we hear is actually

the voice of the Car Dealer:

Mary blinks, shakes her head, as if trying to shake away

these voices of her imagination. She checks the rear-view

mirror.

MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR

Still no sight of the Patrolman.

MARY IN NEW CAR

She tries to force herself to relax, almost succeeds when

she is sprung to tension again by....

EXT. HIGHWAY

The sight of a police car. As she drives past, we hear the

squeaky, unintelligible voice coming over the car radio.

Mary zooms down on the gas, whizzes ahead.

EXT. HIGHWAY 99 - LONG SHOT

Mary's car dashing along.

MARY IN NEW CAR

Mary looks weary, tired with strain and with hard driving.

Her eyes are heavy with worry and deep thought.

OUT THE WINDSHIELD

We can see that it is much later in the day, almost dusk.

MARY IN NEW CAR

We HEAR the sound of an agitated BUZZ of an intercom system,

a sound emanating from Mary's imagination.

After the second BUZZ, we HEAR the voice of Caroline.

Again Mary shakes her head, forces herself to stop hearing

these "invented" scenes of her imagination.

EXT. HIGHWAY

Now we cut to the view of the road, from Mary's viewpoint.

Darkness of evening is coming. In the dim twilight we see

the neon sign of roadside restaurants and gas stations

beginning to blaze on.

INT. MARY'S NEW CAR

Back on Mary's face, and after a moment, the imagined voices

again:

A flush of painful guilt and regret rises up in Mary's face.

She closes her eyes for one tight swift moment.

EXT. HIGHWAY

We cut again to the highway. The first oncoming headlights

slash at the windshield.

INT. MARY'S NEW CAR

Cutting back to Mary, we can sense by the tense muscles of

her face that she is driving faster. The oncoming headlights

blurt at her.

Suddenly we HEAR Lowery's voice, loud now and frightened, as

if the anxiety in the man's voice was strong enough to break

through Mary's effort to keep her mind silent and her

imagination blank.

EXT. HIGHWAY

It is completely dark now, night.

INT. MARY'S NEW CAR

We cut back to her face.

FROM MARY'S VIEWPOINT

EXT. THE ROAD AHEAD INT. MARY'S NEW CAR

Fast cut back to Mary's face. Oncoming headlights throw a

blinding light across her features.

A look of revulsion makes Mary close her eyes.

THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD AGAIN

Big drops of rain begin to appear.

CLOSEUP - MARY

She is becoming aware of the rain starting.

THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD

The rain increasing and backlit by the oncoming headlights.

CLOSEUP - MARY

Mary starts the windshield wipers.

THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD

The wipers are having a battle with the now torrential rain.

CLOSEUP - MARY

Peering through the blurred windshield.

CLOSEUP - THE CAR WHEELS

slowing down in the flooding highway.

CLOSEUP - MARY

peering through the windshield. The oncoming lights are fewer.

CLOSEUP - THE CAR WHEELS

almost coming to a slow turn.

THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD

just blackness and rain.

CLOSEUP - MARY

peering.

MARY'S VIEWPOINT

An almost undiscernible light in the far distance, a neon

sign blurred by the rain-sheeted windshield.

MARY'S CAR

She presses down, forces the car to move on through the

flooded road.

EXT. THE ROAD

As we move closer, we see the neon sign more clearly and can

faintly make out the large letters which read "Motel."  Mary

stops the car, lowers the window slightly, looks out. We see

the sign clearly now: "BATES MOTEL." Mary opens the car door

and dashes out into the rain and up onto the porch of the

motel office.

EXT. BATES' MOTEL - (NIGHT)

Mary pauses on the porch. The lights are on within the office.

She tries door, finds it open, goes into office. CAMERA

FOLLOWS her into office. There is no one present. Mary goes

to the desk, rings a small pushbell. There is no response.

Mary rubs her forehead in weariness and frustration, goes

back out onto the porch. She looks off in another direction,

slightly behind the office, and sees...

MARY'S VIEWPOINT - A LARGE OLD HOUSE - (NIGHT)

A path from the motel office leads directly up to this house.

There is a light on in one of the upstairs rooms. A WOMAN

passes the window, pauses, peers out.

We see her in clear silhouette. She quickly goes away from

the window.

EXT. PORCH OF BATES' MOTEL - (NIGHT)

Mary, having seen the woman, expects now that she will get

some attention. She stands a few moments, waiting.

No one comes. Impatience and anger rise in Mary. She dashes

out into the rain, to her car, gets in, opens the side window,

begins to honk the horn. After a moment, a YOUNG MAN open

the front door of the house, pauses, starts down the path.

After a few steps, he turns and runs back into the house.

Mary leaves her car, starts a dash for the shelter of the

porch. As she runs, we see that the Young Man has gone back

only to get an umbrella. Seeing that Mary is on her way to

the porch, he runs quickly, the umbrella unopened in his

hand. He gets to the porch a moment after Mary has reached

it.

He stops short, looks at her, then at the umbrella hanging

useless in his hand, then back to her.

There is something sadly touching in his manner, in his look.

Mary's impatience goes and she smiles and this makes him

almost smile. He gestures her into the office, standing back

to indicate that he will go after her. She goes into the

office.

INT. OFFICE OF BATES' MOTEL - (NIGHT)

The Young Man follows Mary in, closes the door. He is NORMAN

BATES, somewhere in his late twenties, thin and tall, soft-

spoken and hesitant.

He is behind the counter now, pushing forward the registration

book.

Mary has placed her handbag on the counter. She takes the

registration book, picks up the pen, is suddenly struck with

the realization that she'd better use an alias. She writes

the name Marie Samuels.

She realizes he didn't ask her to tell him, merely to write

it down. She smiles, writes Los Angeles beside the false

name. Norman smiles, stops smiling out of embarrassment.

CLOSEUP - NORMAN

He removes a key for Cabin One. We see that there is a

remaining key on the board.

TWO SHOT - MARY AND NORMAN

He goes to door, opens it. The rain has slowed down

considerably. He smiles at this fact, as if to communicate

some pleasure he finds in it. Mary follows him to the door,

goes out on the porch, waits and watches as Norman runs to

her car, gets in, drives it to the parking space in front of

Cabin One. Mary walks along the porch, waits before the door

of Cabin One.

Norman gets out of car, with suitcase, runs to the door,

opens it, pushes the door open, puts his hand in and switches

on a light. Mary goes into the cabin. Norman follows her.

INT. CABIN ONE - (NIGHT)

Norman places suitcase on bed, goes to the window, opens it.

He pauses at the door, gazes at her. She smiles.

Mary closes the door, goes to suitcase, opens it, starts to

take out a dress. Her handbag is next to the suitcase. She

glances down into it, pauses, drops the dress, reaches into

the handbag, takes out the money-filled envelope, stares at

it, almost with regret, filled contemplates hiding it, decides

to, starts looking for a reasonable hiding place. She looks

about, at the closet, the drawers etc., realizes all such

places are obvious. Catching sight of the newspaper in her

bag, she hits on a solution. She opens the newspaper, places

the envelope within it, lock-folds the paper again and then

places it on the bedside table as if it were there for later

reading. She considers this for a moment, accepts it, goes

to her suitcase to start unpacking.

Suddenly the quiet is shattered by the shrill, ugly sound of

a woman's voice, raised in anger.

Mary walks slowly to the window, realizing that the terrible

voice is coming from the house behind the cabins. CAMERA

FOLLOWS her to window and once there we see the light is

still on in the upstairs bedroom and the voice is coming

from that room. The rain has stopped and the moon is out.

There is the SOUND of a door closing in that room up there.

Mary has stood by the window, listening with mounting distress

and concern and sympathy. She turns her face away now, gazes

sadly at the little empty room.

In a moment there is the SOUND of the house's front door

slamming shut. Mary turns, looks out the window.

FROM MARY'S VIEWPOINT - (NIGHT)

We see Norman coming down the path, carrying a napkin-covered

tray.

INT. CABIN ONE - (NIGHT)

Mary looks at him for a moment, then turns quickly, goes to

the door, opens it and goes out onto the porch.

EXT. THE MOTEL PORCH - (NIGHT)

Mary pauses outside the door, is about to start forward when

Norman comes round the building and walks along the porch,

past the office, stopping only when he is close to her. He

stares with painful embarrassment at the knowing look in her

eye.

Norman flinches, realizing she has heard his mother's

reference to Mary's appetite.

She begins to back into her room. Norman starts to follow,

hesitates as he sees the total picture of an attractive young

woman and a motel room. Bringing down the tray of food, in

defiance of his mother's orders, is about the limit of his

defiance for one day. He cannot go into Mary's room.

Without waiting for approval or disapproval, he turns, hurries

to the office. Mary looks after him, her face showing amused

sympathy, then follows.

INT. THE MOTEL OFFICE - (NIGHT)

Norman looks about, tray in hand, sees there is no reasonable

place to spread out a supper. He turns, sees Mary standing

in the doorway.

Mary nods. Norman walks on, behind the counter and into the

darkened parlor. Mary follows.

INT. NORMAN'S PARLOR -(NIGHT)

In the darkened room, lit only by the light from the office

spilling in, we see Norman placing the tray on a table. Mary

comes to the doorway, pauses. Norman straightens up, goes to

lamp, turns on the light.

Mary is startled by the room. Even in the dimness of one

lamp, the strange, extraordinary nature of the room rushes

up at one. It is a room of birds. Stuffed birds, all over

the room, on every available surface, one even clinging to

the old fashioned fringed shade of the lamp. The birds are

of many varieties, beautiful, grand, horrible, preying. Mary

stares in awe and a certain fascinated horror.

CLOSE UP - THE VARIOUS BIRDS TWO SHOT - MARY AND NORMAN

As Norman goes about spreading out the bread and ham and

pouring the milk, we follow Mary across the room. She studies

the birds as she walks, briefly examines a bookcase stacked

with books on the subject of "Taxidermy."

CLOSE UP - THE BOOKS ON TAXIDERMY MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARY

She notices, too, the paintings on the wall; nudes, primarily,

and many with a vaguely religious overtone.

Finally Mary reaches the sofa, sits down, looks at the spread.

Mary begins to eat, her attitude a bit tense. She takes up a

small slice of ham, bites off a tiny bite, nibbles at it in

the manner of one disturbed and preoccupied.

Norman gazes at her, at the tiny bite she has taken, smiles

and then laughs.

He trails off, his exuberance failing in the rushing return

of his natural hesitancy and discomfort. Mary looks at him,

with some compression, smiles.

She hesitates. Norman turns, slowly, looking at her with a

striking coldness.

The fury suddenly dies, abruptly and completely, and he sinks

back into his chair. There is a brief silence.

Mary watches the troubled man, is almost physically pained

by his anguish.

She goes out of the parlor. We see her, from Norman's

viewpoint, as she crosses the small office, goes out into

the night. Norman turns and looks at the table, and we see

his face now. It is bright with that drunken-like look of

determination and encouragement and like resolve. He starts

to clean up the table, pauses as he hears the closing of

Mary's door in the cabin next door.

He holds still, listens. He goes into the office and looks

at the book.

C.U. - THE NAME "SAMUELS"

M.S. - NORMAN

He goes back into the parlor with a mystified expression.

The sound of Mary moving about her room come over, soft

SOUNDS, somehow intimate in the night quiet. Norman turns

his ear from the direction of the SOUNDS, seems to be fighting

an impulse to listen, or more than listen.

But slowly, he is forced to surrender to the impulse and,

resisting himself, he goes to the wall, presses the side of

his head against it. The SOUNDS come louder, as if we too

had our ear pressed against the wall. Now Norman looks at a

picture hanging on the far end of the wall he is leaning

against. Slowly he starts toward it.

He reaches it, touches it, reluctantly lifts the small frame

off the wall.

A tiny circle of light hits Norman's face, coming from the

hole in the wall behind the picture. This end of the room is

very dim and thus we are able to see clearly the light

striking Norman's face.

We move close to Norman, extremely close, until his profile

fills the screen. The tiny spot of light hits his eye. See

the small hole through which the light comes. Norman peeps

through.

NORMAN'S VIEWPOINT

Through the hole we look into Mary's cabin, see Mary

undressing. She is in her bra and halfslip. She stoops over

a bit, places her hands behind her upper back, begins to

unhook her bra.

NORMAN - ECU

He watches as Mary removes her bra. We see his eye run up

and down the unseen figure of Mary.

NORMAN'S VIEWPOINT

Mary, just slipping into a robe, covering her complete nudity.

NORMAN

He turns from the hole, faces us for a moment, continues

turning until he can look out the small parlor window.

We see, as he sees...

THE HOUSE IN THE BACKGROUND

NORMAN

He turns his face away, quickly, resentfully. In his face we

see anger and anguish. And then resolve.

Quickly, precisely, he rehangs the picture over the hole in

the wall, turns, starts out of the parlor. We see him go

through the office and out onto the porch, not even bothering

to close the door behind him.

EXT. THE MOTEL OFFICE PORCH - (NIGHT)

Norman walking along the porch, in the direction of the big

house. Once on the path he pauses, looks up at the light in

the bedroom window, then pulls himself up, squares his

shoulders, strides manfully up the path.

CAMERA follows behind him. He opens the door of the house,

enters. We see him pause at the foot of the stairway, look

up at the bedroom door just at the head of the stair. He

holds for a moment, and then his resolve and courage

evaporates. His shoulders slump, sadly, mournfully. He by-

passes the stairs and slowly makes his way to the kitchen.

At the far end of the hall. He enters the kitchen, drops

wearily into a chair. After a moment, he stretches out a leg

and gently pushes the kitchen door closed.

INT. MARY'S MOTEL ROOM - (NIGHT)

Mary is seated at the small desk, engrossed in figuring in a

small notebook. We see from these figures a calculation which

indicates her intention to make a restitution of the money

she has used of the forty thousand dollars. We see, too, her

bankbook. The paper reads thus: top figure, 40,000; directly

beneath it 500, the amount used for the new car; total after

subtraction, 39,500. In another spot we see a figure which

matches the balance in her bankbook; 624.00.

Beneath this is the figure 500, and the amount after

subtraction, 124.00. She studies the figures, sighs, not

wearily but with a certain satisfaction, with the pleasure

that comes when one knows that at any cost one is going to

continue doing the right thing. After a moment she tears the

page out of the notebook and, rising, begins to rip it into

small pieces. She goes into the bathroom, drops the pieces

into the toilet bowl, flushes the toilet. Then she drops her

robe and steps into the tub and turns the shower on.

INT. MARY IN SHOWER

Over the bar on which hangs the shower curtain, we can see

the bathroom door, not entirely closed. For a moment we watch

Mary as she washes and soaps herself.

There is still a small worry in her eyes, but generally she

looks somewhat relieved.

Now we see the bathroom door being pushed slowly open.

The noise of the shower drowns out any sound. The door is

then slowly and carefully closed.

And we see the shadow of a woman fall across the shower

curtain. Mary's back is turned to the curtain. The white

brightness of the bathroom is almost blinding.

Suddenly we see the hand reach up, grasp the shower curtain,

rip it aside.

MARY - ECU

As she turns in response to the feel and SOUND of the shower

curtain being torn aside. A look of pure horror erupts in

her face. A low terrible groan begins to rise up out of her

throat. A hand comes into the shot. The hand holds an enormous

bread knife. The flint of the blade shatters the screen to

an almost total, silver blankness.

THE SLASHING

An impression of a knife slashing, as if tearing at the very

screen, ripping the film. Over it the brief gulps of

screaming. And then silence. And then the dreadful thump as

Mary's body falls in the tub.

REVERSE ANGLE

The blank whiteness, the blur of the shower water, the hand

pulling the shower curtain back. We catch one flicker of a

glimpse of the murderer. A woman, her face contorted with

madness, her head wild with hair, as if she were wearing a

fright-wig.  And then we see only the curtain, closed across

the tub, and hear the rush of the shower water. Above the

shower-bar we see the bathroom door open again and after a

moment we HEAR the SOUND of the front door slamming.

THE DEAD BODY

Lying half in, half out of the tub, the head tumbled over,

touching the floor, the hair wet, one eye wide open as if

popped, one arm lying limp and wet along the tile floor.

Coming down the side of the tub, running thick and dark along

the porcelain, we see many small threads of blood. CAMERA

FOLLOWS away from the body, travels slowly across the

bathroom, past the toilet, out into the bedroom. As CAMERA

approaches the bed, we see the folded newspaper as Mary placed

it on the bedside table.

CLOSE UP - THE NEWSPAPER

beside the bed. The CAMERA now moves away over to the window

and looks up to the house, and as it gets there we HEAR,

coming from within the house, the SOUND of Norman's fearful,

shocked voice.

We cannot entirely distinguish these exclamations.

After a moment or two of silence, Norman emerges from the

front door, dashes down the path toward the motel.

EXT. THE PATH - (NIGHT)

Norman is coming AT CAMERA, running head-on. He dashes into

an extreme close up and we see the terror and fear ripe in

his face. CAMERA PANS as Norman races past, holds as Norman

runs to the porch and quickly along it and directly to Mary's

room.

INT. MARY'S CABIN - (NIGHT)

Norman pauses a moment in the doorway, glances about the

room, hears the shower going, sees the bathroom door is open.

He goes to the bathroom, looks in, sees the body.

Slowly, almost carefully, he raises his hands to his face,

covers his eyes, turns his face away. Then he crosses to the

window, looks out at the house. Shot is so angled that we

see the bedside table with the newspaper on it.

After a moment, Norman moves from the window, sinks onto the

edge of the bed.

FRESH ANGLE - BEHIND NORMAN

Norman sitting on bed, the bathroom in b.g. of shot. We can

see only the hand of the dead girl, lying along the tile

floor. Norman presses his eyes, fights to find a way out of

his dilemma. Slowly, a kind of settling comes upon him, the

peace that comes with decision.

Norman rises, goes to the window, looks out, and then, with

resolution, closes the window and draws the curtain across

it. Then he crosses to the front window, facing the porch,

and draws those curtains closed. Then he switches off the

bedroom light, leaving the room lit only by the spill from

the bathroom. He opens the front door, goes out.

EXT. THE HOTEL PORCH - (NIGHT)

Norman comes out of Mary's cabin, closes the door carefully

behind him, goes along the porch to his office, goes in. We

stay outside. Immediately, the "Vacancy" sign goes off, and

then the motel sign goes off. As CAMERA GOES closer to the

office, the lights within go off and we HEAR a closet door

opening and then the SOUND of a pail being picked up. Norman

comes out of office, closes door, looks cautiously about,

goes along porch, carrying pail with mop in it, goes into

Mary's cabin, closing the door after him.

INT. MARY'S CABIN

With the paper in the foreground, Norman enters. We can see

him in the dim spill of light. He pauses by the door, then

gathers his strength and goes into the bathroom. We HEAR him

set the pail on the tiled floor, and then we HEAR the shower

being turned off. And there is total silence. CAMERA MOVES

FORWARD so that we can see into bathroom.

CAMERA is ANGLED that we see Norman only from the waist up.

Quickly and deftly he unhooks the shower curtain, emerges

with it into the bedroom. CAMERA PANS down and we see him

spread the shower curtain on the bedroom floor, just outside

the bathroom door. He spreads the curtain so that one end of

it comes up against the bathroom threshold and slightly over

and onto the tile floor. Again he goes into the bathroom and

CAMERA TILTS up so that we see only the upper half of Norman.

He works carefully, with his arms extended away from his

body, slowly pulls the dead body out of the tub, drags it

across the tile floor and onto the spread-out shower curtain

in the bedroom. Having arranged the body, he straightens up,

examines his hands, sees bloodstains on them. He returns to

the bathroom, goes to the hand-basin.

CLOSE SHOT

We see his hands being washed, see the bloodstains being

diluted and washed away by the gush of the faucet water.

NORMAN

We see Norman shake his hands free of the water, then turn

to the job of cleaning the bathroom.

He places the pail in the tub, runs water into it, dips the

mop in, swabs the tile floor. With a towel he wipes off the

wall over the tub and the edges and sides of the tub and

even the shower curtain rod. Then he takes a second towel

and goes over the cleaned areas, carefully drying them.

Finally he rinses and squeezes out the mop, empties the pail,

cleans out the tub, and goes out into the bedroom.

INT. MARY'S BEDROOM

Norman steps carefully around the unseen body, crosses to

the desk, starts going through Mary's handbag, in search of

her car keys. He suddenly notices them lying on the desk,

where he'd thrown them after parking her car. He picks up

the keys, crosses the room, goes out.

EXT. THE PORCH

We see Norman pauses at the door, check cautiously, then

hurry across the porch and into Mary's car. He circle-turns

the car, so that its trunk is backed up to the turns porch,

directly opposite Mary's door, as close as it can go.

Then he alights, goes to the trunk, opens it with the key

and, leaving the trunk lid raised, goes back into the cabin.

INT. MARY'S ROOM

From a raised angle, we see Norman bend down and begin to

wrap the shower curtain around the body. We see the edges of

the curtain as they are raised and laid down again. Then he

picks up the wrapped body, crosses to the door, uses his

foot to pull the door open, and, leaving the door open behind

him, goes quickly across the porch and gently lays the body

in the trunk. He closes the lid then, but does not lock it.

He comes back into the cabin, closes the door completely,

flicks on the light.

Again the newspaper is in the foreground. For a moment he

pauses, closes his eyes against the realization of what he

is doing, then quickly pushes all thoughts away, continues

with his work. With the room lighted, he now proceeds to

gather up all Mary's articles and toss them into the suitcase.

He checks all drawers and the closet, gets down and checks

under bed and bureau, goes into the bathroom, checks that

room again, comes back into the bedroom, looks about

carefully, spots Mary's handbag, throws even that into the

suitcase, is finally satisfied that all traces of the girl

are gone from the room. Then he closes Mary's suitcase, picks

it up.

With his free hand he picks up the pail, in which are the

mop and the used towels. He crosses to the door, switches

off the light with his shoulder, pulls open the door, starts

out.

EXT. THE PORCH

As Norman stands in the doorway, he is suddenly and blindingly

lit by the bright headlights of a passing car. The flash of

the lights and the SOUND of the SPEEDING CAR are over in a

flicker of a moment, but it takes a few seconds for Norman

to regain his former tense composure. Then he goes to the

car trunk, raises it with his foot, throws the suitcase and

the pail into it, slams it shut. He pauses a moment, then

realizes he has left the bathroom light on in Mary's cabin.

He returns to cabin. As he enters, his eye is caught by the

newspaper on the bedside table. He goes to it, takes the

newspaper, and looks once again into the bathroom. His glance

goes right over the toilet bowl.

He turns out the lights, crosses the darkened cabin, goes

out onto the porch.

He reopens the trunk, tosses in the newspaper and closes it.

He goes around and jumps into the car and starts away.

We HOLD on the trunk, follow it for a while, then

EXT. THE SWAMP - (NIGHT)

The car pulls away from a CLOSE ANGLE on the trunk and as

CAMERA HOLDS we see that we are now in a swamp area.

It is quiet except for the irritating noises of night insects.

Norman stops the car at the very edge of the swamp, turns

off the lights, gets out, leaving door open. He looks at the

swamp, seems doubtful of its ability to swallow up the car,

realizes he has no choice. He leans into the car, releases

the emergency brake, starts to push. The front of the car

begins to roll into the swamp. Suddenly there is the LOW,

THROBBING SOUND of a motor. Norman freezes, listens.

The SOUND grows louder and Norman realizes it is an airplane

flying overhead. The car is rolling quickly now. Norman jumps

away, slams the door shut, stands tense. The SOUND of the

plane overhead grows louder.

Norman looks up.

NORMAN'S VIEWPOINT - THE BLACK SKY

We see no plane. The SOUND of the motor is beginning to

diminish.

NORMAN

We see the relief in his face. He looks at the car.

More than two-thirds of it have already sunk into the swamp.

The trunk alone seems to hold poised above the sand and slime,

as if refusing to go the rest of the way. Norman begins to

panic, he steps dangerously close, pushes with his foot. And

slowly the car sinks, until finally it is gone and we hear

only the gentle plop of the swamp's final gulp, and see only

the small after-bubble, like a visual burp.

Norman waits a moment, then begins stamping out the tire

marks, so obvious in the wet ground around the swamp.

He stamps and drags his feet over the markings as we:

CLOSE UP NORMAN

standing on the porch of the motel, leaning against a post.

He is staring out into the night, a look of guarded, casual

innocence on his face, as if he were taking one last moment

of peaceful night air before retiring. Then he glances down

and CAMERA follows his gaze. A hose is lying on the ground

outside Mary's cabin, its stream of water obliterating the

tire marks.

After a moment, Norman's hand comes into shot, picks up hose,

places it in a new position. As CAMERA PULLS BACK, we see

that the water from the hose has erased and rearranged the

road markings so that it would be impossible to tell that a

car had been parked here.

After a short wait, Norman goes to the hose-faucet, turns it

off, unscrews the hose. As he rolls the hose, he walks away

from the spot, past the office, heading for the path that

leads to the house. He goes up the path, pauses at the steps

of the house, tosses the curled hose onto the lawn, goes up

the steps and into the house. CAMERA FOLLOWS him in, PAUSES

as he pauses at the foot of the stairs. Norman goes up the

stairs.

On the landing he stops. The door to his mother's room is

closed. Lying in a heap outside the door are a blood-stained

dress and a pair of elderly-woman's shoes. From an EXTREMELY

HIGH ANGLE, we look down on Norman as he bends to pick up

the stained dress and shoes.

He rolls the shoes into the dress, tucks the small, neat

bundle under his arm, and starts down the stairs, heading

for the basement.

EXT. A LONG SHOT OF THE OLD HOUSE - (NIGHT)

It stands silhouetted against the sky. There is a long wait.

Then, slowly, a curl of smoke comes out of the chimney.

INT. BACK ROOM OF SAM'S HARDWARE STORE IN FAIRVALE - (DAY)

Sam is seated at his desk, writing a letter. Sequence

begins with CAMERA IN CLOSE, over Sam's shoulder, and we can

read as mush as he has written of the letter. The letterhead

reads "Sam Loomis - Hardware," and the letter reads: "Dearest

right-as-always Mary: I'm sitting in this tiny back room

which isn't big enough for both of us, and suddenly it looks

big enough for both of us. So what if we're poor and cramped

and miserable, at least we'll be happy! If you haven't come

to your senses, and still want to...

CAMERA begins PULLING AWAY as Sam turns the sheet of paper

over, continues backing away out of the small back room and

heads, backwards, down the corridor, we see a young clerk,

BOB SUMMERFIELD, Sam's assistant, standing behind the counter,

a look of handsome patience on his face. He is waiting on a

meticulous, elderly woman customer, who is holding and

examining a large can of insecticide. As CAMERA PASSES:

CAMERA, by this has reached the front door of the hardware

store and we now see a girl standing just inside the door.

She is an attractive girl with a rather definite manner, a

look of purposefulness. She carries a handbag and a small

overnight case. She is Mary's sister, LILA CRANE.

Bob Summerfield has noticed Lila, smiles brightly at her,

gives her an I'll-be-with-you-in-a-moment nod.

Lila starts to walk toward the counter, never taking her

eyes off Bob. As she approaches, she asks quietly:

Lila looks to the back room. The woman customer goes on

worriedly examining the fine print of the insecticide can.

Sam comes to the door of his room, pauses, looks at Lila a

moment, starts toward her, his expression indicating that he

does not know her. Lila studies him with a quiet, worried

expression.

Lila glances at the customer and the clerk, turns, starts

toward the front of the store. Sam holds a moment, then

follows. As he reaches her, she turns, her eyes studying him

intently as she says:

Sam is mystified, and is also aware of the worried, hostile

expression on Lila's face. He studies her for a quiet moment.

Behind them is a display of various size carving knives.

As Sam is about to speak, the Woman Customer comes sailing

past, speaking as she goes and wearing a satisfied smile.

She speaks "quick" with a kind of delicious bite, nods

happily, goes on out of the store. Sam is now staring

apprehensively at Lila.

She stops, the anxiety and fear building up in her, her eyes

beginning to fill with worried tears. Sam studies her for a

moment, then turns and calls:

Bob gets the message, goes out through the back way.

Sam goes closer to Lila, speaks with soft seriousness.

Their attention is distracted by a man who has strolled

quietly into the room. He ignores them, walks past them,

goes behind the counter, takes down a sign reading "CLOSED

FOR LUNCH," walks back to the door, closes door, hangs the

sign across the door window, locks the door, turns to Sam

and Lila, folds his arms, smiles a particularly unfriendly

smile.

There is a moment's silence and then, unable to tolerate the

sudden frightening happenings, Sam explodes.

Sam looks at Arbogast in utter shock and in that state asks

one of those seemingly ridiculous questions.

And no one has seen her since.

A real look of anguish comes into Lila's face. And Arbogast

studies it, then speaks.

Lila turns from Sam, a flush of guilt and regret in her face.

Arbogast looks at her, quiet sympathetically.

He nods, takes down the closed-for-lunch sign, sails it to

the counter, opens door, goes out into the street.

After a quiet moment:

He hangs the sign on the door, ushers Lila out, closes door

behind him.

EXT. STREET - (DAY)

They emerge from the store and walk along to the hotel.  As

they enter, Arbogast is in the act of taking over a white

Ford sedan from a rental car man. They glance at him and he

returns a cynical look.

EXT. HOTEL - (DAY)

Outside another hotel we see Arbogast alight from the white

car and go into new hotel.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - (DAY)

The white car speeding along the highway.

EXT. NEW MOTEL - (DAY)

Arbogast going into the office - we see the sign above him.

EXT. BATES' MOTEL - (DAY)

A high shot showing the freeway and Bates house and motel on

the side old highway. A pause and then across the bottom of

the picture a white car speeds by on the freeway.

EXT. HOTEL - (DUSK)

Another Hotel. Arbogast goes in.

EXT. BATES' MOTEL - (DAY)

The white car speeding along the freeway again going in the

opposite direction to last time. Norman, a tiny figure, is

seen going up the steps to his mother's house.

EXT. BOARDING HOUSE - (DAY)

Arbogast's search is getting down in the scale. This is an

entrance to a cheesy boarding house. "Rooms to Rent," etc.

He looks at his list and then goes in.

EXT. BATES' MOTEL - (DAY)

The white car goes by on the freeway again.

EXT. ROOMING HOUSE - (DAY)

Arbogast goes in.

EXT. BATES' MOTEL - (TWILIGHT)

Heavy traffic on the freeway. A beat or two - again the white

car. It slows up opposite the distant motel. It makes a turn

and goes back out of scene. A pause and it reappears on the

old road and slowly makes its way toward the Bates' Motel.

EXT. THE BATES' HOUSE AND MOTEL - (TWILIGHT)

We now see Norman. He has brought out an old rocking chair

and has placed it on the office porch and is sitting hunched

in it. And he is darning one of his own socks. CAMERA HOLDS.

Beyond the porch, and Norman, we see the old house and can

barely make out, in the twilight dimness, the figure of his

mother seated at the window. Here, too, there is that quality

of quiet peace surrounded by a vague foreboding.

Now Norman looks up at the SOUND of the approaching car.

And continues looking as the car comes to a stop and Arbogast

gets out. Arbogast gives the place a quick once-over, gazes

at Norman, starts forward. In his steps and manner there is

that bored, routine-logged quality of a man who has seen too

many motels and asked question of too many hotel managers

over too short a period of time.

Norman rises as Arbogast comes forward.

Norman is holding the door open, so Arbogast walks in.

Norman follows.

INT. MOTEL OFFICE - (TWILIGHT)

Norman switches on the overhead light, starts for the linen

closet, suddenly pauses, turns, studies Arbogast, who has

remained standing by the door.

He waits a moment, then opens closet, starts counting out

sheets and pillow cases, keeps his back to Arbogast.

Arbogast takes a photograph out of his pocket, talks as he

crosses to Norman.

Norman glances, briefly, turns away, lifts sheets and pillow

cases off the shelf holds them close, almost protectively.

He goes to the wall, flips a light switch.

We had a couple the other night, said if the sign hasn't

been on they'd have thought this was an old deserted mining

town or something.

Norman says nothing. Arbogast goes to the desk, pulls the

registry book around, flips back a page or two.

Norman simply stares at the man. Arbogast hums faintly,

pleasantly, as he examines the pages. Then:

He takes a slip of paper out of his pocket, lays it beside

the signature in the registry book, all the while nodding

and smiling nicely, as if this discovery will make Norman as

happy as it is making him.

Arbogast has reached him, the picture extended. Norman looks

dutifully at it.

He starts out. Arbogast pauses, momentarily confused by the

young man's openness.

EXT. THE MOTEL PORCH - (NIGHT)

Norman walks down the porch, hesitates before Cabin One,

walks on a bit toward Cabin Two, stops, turns to see if

Arbogast is following. Arbogast has come out onto the porch,

but is not following. He has walked to the opposite end of

the porch and is standing at its edge, looking up at the old

house. The upstairs window is in darkness. The neon of the

Vacancy and Motel signs splash strange light over the scene.

Arbogast does not reply. Norman becomes apprehensive, starts

to Arbogast, forcing himself to remain calm and cheerful.

Arbogast turns, gazes seriously at him.

Norman does not respond. Arbogast gets in his car, starts

the motor. Norman looks up, studies the man's face, his own

face showing apprehension. Arbogast backs the car around

very slowly, his gaze divided between the old house and the

lighted window of Cabin Two. As he turns the car out, his

headlights light up the porch.

Norman stands, watching him drive away.

EXT. PHONE BOOTH - (NIGHT)

The car pulls up and Arbogast gets out of car, leaving motor

running. As he starts to walk across the highway, CAMERA

PULLS AWAY and we

EXT. HIGHWAY WITH TELEPHONE BOOTH - (NIGHT)

Arbogast gets to the phone booth, enters. CAMERA STARTS

FORWARD, and we see Arbogast remove a small notebook from

his pocket, check on a number, drop a dime in the slot and

dial this number. As we reach phone booth,

He hangs up, gets out of the phone booth.

EXT. BATES' MOTEL - (NIGHT)

A distant view of the House and Motel. There is a light on

in the house. There is also a light on in Norman's office.

We see Norman emerge from his office and move along the porch

toward the distant cabins. He carries sheets on his arm. He

goes into the last cabin and switches the light on. Into the

foreground the hood of the white Ford enters the scene and

stops. Arbogast gets out. He goes over to the Motel office.

EXT. MOTEL OFFICE - (NIGHT)

Arbogast goes in.

INT. OFFICE - (NIGHT)

Arbogast looks around the empty office and calls.

He goes over to the door to the parlor and enters. He looks

around the bird-ridden room. He stops short as he sees:

C.U. - THE OLD SAFE IN THE CORNER

C.U. - ARBOGAST

goes over to it. He finds it unlocked. With a quick, cautious

look around he opens it.

C.U. - THE EMPTY SAFE

C.U. - ARBOGAST

straightens up and goes out.

EXT. MOTEL OFFICE - (NIGHT)

Arbogast comes out and looks off. He sees:

THE LAST LIT CABIN

The door ajar.

C.U. - ARBOGAST - (NIGHT)

would go along but he stops with a new thought. He turns

around and looks off.

L.S. - THE OLD HOUSE FROM HIS VIEWPOINT - (NIGHT)

C.U. - ARBOGAST

comes to a decision. He goes off.

L.S. ARBOGAST

dashes up the stone steps to the House.

MEDIUM SHOT

CAMERA HOLDS as Arbogast goes up onto the porch. The house

is dark within except, as we can now see, for a faint spill

of light in the foyer, light which comes from the upstairs

hall. Arbogast goes to the living room window, looks in,

sees only darkness. Then he goes to the door, listens for

along moment, hears nothing.

Very slowly, almost painfully, he turns the knob of the door

and pushes gently with his arm and shoulder. The door begins

to open. He allows it to open just enough for him to slip

through and into the foyer.

INT. FOYER OF BATES' HOUSE - (NIGHT)

Arbogast gradually eases the door closed, stands against it,

waiting. He looks up in the direction of the light, sees no

one. The door at the head of the stairs is closed. Arbogast

listens, holds his breath, hears what could be human sounds

coming from upstairs but realizes these could also be the

sounds of an old house after sunset. After a careful wait,

he crosses to the stairs, starts up, slowly, guardedly,

placing a foot squarely on each step to test it for squeaks

or groans before placing his full weight on it. CAMERA

FOLLOWS, remaining on floor level but TRAVELLING ALONG the

stairway as Arbogast makes his way up.

EXTREMELY HIGH ANGLE

INT. STAIRWAY AND UPSTAIRS LANDING

We see Arbogast coming up the stairs. And now we see, too,

the door of the mother's room, opening, carefully and slowly.

As Arbogast reaches the landing, the door opens and the mother

steps out, her hand raises high, the blade of an enormous

knife flashing.

C.U. - A BIG HEAD OF AN ASTONISHED ARBOGAST

The knife slashes across his cheek and neck. Blood spurts.

The sudden attack throws him off balance. He stumbles back

and staggers down the whole of the staircase. He frantically

gropes for the balustrade as he goes backwards down the

stairs. The CAMERA FOLLOWS him all the way. A wicked knife

keeps thrusting itself into the foreground. As he collapses

at the bottom, the black head and shoulders of Mrs. Bates

plunges into the foreground as the CAMERA MOVES IN to contain

the raising and descending murder weapon.

INT. BACK ROOM OF HARDWARE STORE - (NIGHT)

Lila is sitting close by the phone, and looks as if she hasn't

moved from it in the last hour. Sam is pacing, occasionally

stopping at the window, glancing out, pacing again. The ash

tray close to Lila is filled.

There is a thick atmosphere of smoke, tension and weariness

in the small, otherwise cozy room.

Sam stares at her, frowns in concern over her very real

anxiety, goes to the phone, dials operator.

He presses down the receiver, releases it, dials Bates'

Motel. The faint other-end ringing tones can be heard,

repeatedly, annoyingly. He waits.

He starts for the door. Lila follows after him into the store.

INT. STORE

He pauses halfway down, turns, puts his hands on her arms.

He hurries down to the street door and out. CAMERA HOLDS on

Lila as she stares after Sam. As she stands alone in the

darkened store, all the hardware seems to take on sinister

shapes.

C.U.

Among some bathroom fittings a nozzle from a shower falls

onto the floor.

MEDIUM SHOT

Lila turns and picks if from the floor and puts it back in

its place. She turns and again looks to the deserted street

with a touch of anxiety. She gives a slight unconscious

shiver.

EXT. THE SWAMP - (NIGHT)

Tall and lonely still against the moonlight, the figure of

Norman, silhouetted. He doesn't move, merely stands there at

the edge of the swamp, staring down at the now calm and quiet

face of it.

EXT. THE MOTEL AND HOUSE - (NIGHT)

All light are out, except the light in Norman's mother's

room. And her figure can be seen sitting in the window,

relaxed in a high-back chair, her face turned into the room.

After a second, we hear the SOUND OF A MOTOR, and then Sam's

small pick-up truck swings into the driveway.

Sam stops the motor, automatically switches off headlights,

pauses as he observes the silence and darkness of the area.

Then he hops out of the cab, goes quickly to the office,

knocks on the door. As he waits for a response, he looks

down the long porch, studies the darkened cabins, knocks

again, louder, looks in the other direction and sees the

house and the figure at the one lit window. He stares a moment

then calls loudly:

EXT. THE SWAMP

The silhouette of Norman. He is still. Over shot, very dimly,

comes the SOUND OF SAM'S VOICE, calling again for Arbogast.

Norman turns slowly until, in silhouette, we see his profile,

his chin lowered furtively as he looks over his shoulder in

the direction of the house. There is silence for a moment,

and then again the SOUND of Sam POUNDING at the door.

INT. HARDWARE STORE - (NIGHT)

The store is in darkness, only the glow from the back room

spilling in.

L.S.

With CAMERA placed with its back to the street door, we can

see the distant tiny figure of Lila seated and waiting in

the back room beyond. There is a SOUND of a car pulling up.

The tiny figure jumps up and runs all the way from the back

room down the aisle of hardware and comes into a BIG HEAD.

We see Lila's desperate anxious look.

MEDIUM SHOT

From her viewpoint we see Sam alighting from his truck and

coming toward the door of the store. He enters. He and Lila

exchange quiet glances.

Lila goes quiet. Sam starts toward the back room, pauses at

the doorway, turns. Lila has remained by the door, looking

out at the street. She feels his pause, turns, and for a

moment they share at each other across the darkened room.

As he starts forward.

EXT. STREET THE SHERIFF LIVES ON - (NIGHT)

A dark, quiet, tree-ceilinged street, the small neat houses

dim in the moonlight. Sam's pick-up truck comes down the

street, pulls up before the house of Sheriff Chambers. CAMERA

MOVES IN on Sam and Lila as they remain for a moment in the

truck's cab, staring quietly at the sleeping house.

He gets out of cab, goes around to help Lila. She is already

out. CAMERA FOLLOWS them up the small path to the front door.

Sam presses the bell button. Both he and Lila are almost

knocked over by the shocking, clanging, ear-splitting BLAST

OF THE BELL within the house, a ring which sounds more like

a fire alarm than a doorbell.

He tries to smile, fails. Lila doesn't even try. The

downstairs hall light goes on and a moment later the door is

unhesitatingly opened by MRS. CHAMBERS, a small, lively stick

of a woman wrapped in a thick flannel robe and a corona of

hospitality.

As she opens the door wide,

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALL OF SHERIFF'S HOUSE - (NIGHT)

Fat roses splatter the wallpaper. The stairs are carpeted.

The lighting is bright.

There is a perfectly fitting wall phone by the parlor arch.

Mrs. Chambers goes to the stairway, yells up.

Sam is about to close the door behind him. Mrs. Chambers

motions for him not to, scurries across the hall, leans

outside, presses the doorbell. The RING within the house is

even more shattering. She closes the door, starts to the

stairway, pauses as the SOUNDS of movement above COME OVER

SHOT.

SHERIFF CHAMBERS comes down the stairs, in a bathrobe which

matches his wife's. He is a tall, narrow man with a face

originally destined for Mount Rushmore. He nods at Sam, looks

at him with wide-awake eyes and a no-nonsense concern.

Mrs. Chambers goes to phone, dials operator.

She hands the receiver to the Sheriff. He takes it,

reluctantly, listens to the dim sound of RINGING on the other

end. After a moment:

The Sheriff looks long at Lila, shakes his head

sympathetically.

There is a long silence. Sam and Lila stare at the Sheriff.

The Sheriff stares at both of them, and when he finally speaks

there is an almost inaudible tone or irony in his voice.

INT. NORMAN'S PARLOR BEHIND OFFICE - (NIGHT)

Norman sits in the dim, one-lamp light, the phone next to

him, his hand still near it as if he had not been able to

move his hand after hanging up. He is staring at the shrike-

like bird which is perched on the lamp shade. Decision and

resolution are beginning to show in his face. Suddenly he

rises, starts quickly out of the room, tries to switch off

the lamp as he goes and in so doing succeeds only in knocking

the bird off the shade.

He watches it fall, does not try to catch it. It hits the

floor with a thud and sawdust spills out. He stares sadly at

it, for a moment, then tends down, scoops up the sawdust,

tries to press it into the split seam, picks up the bird,

puts it in a drawer. Then he puts out the lamp, goes out,

crosses the darkened office and goes outside.

EXT. MOTEL AND HOUSE - (NIGHT)

Norman comes off the porch, walks to the path and directly

up to the house, opens the door and goes in.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY AND STAIRWAY - (NIGHT)

SHOOTING UP THE STAIRS

Norman goes up, pauses one moment outside his mother's door,

then opens it and goes in, leaving the door open.

For a moment we hear only Norman's low, quiet voice, his

words indistinguishable. Then we hear the cold shot of his

mother's derisive laughter.

During all this the CAMERA has been slowly creeping up the

stairs. It does not stop at the top however, but continues

on the same high angle that we had in Scene 57.

She starts to laugh, a terrible sound like an obscene melody.

Norman comes out of the room, his mother held in his arms,

her head leaning against his shoulder. He carries her down

the stairs, along the lower landing to the cellar stairs,

and then down those stairs to the basement.

EXT. FAIRVALE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH - (MORNING)

An overcast morning, but a sunny-faced crowd. The service is

just over, there is contentment, and peace, and just a little

I-went-to-church-smugness in the faces of the churchgoers as

they come out of the chapel, and spread their separate ways

away.

Amongst the crowd, waiting and searching the faces, are Sam

and Lila. In their expressions there is no peace, no

contentment. CAMERA MOVES IN CLOSE. They are not speaking.

Lila looks as if she has had no sleep.

Suddenly, Sam becomes alert, takes Lila's arm, starts toward

the church.

CAMERA MOVES WITH THEM, stops as they approach Sheriff and

Mrs. Chambers. The Sheriff stares rather sympathetically at

Lila. Mrs. Chambers smiles nicely.

He moves away and the others follow. CAMERA PANS them to the

curb.

She used a fake name, saw the register myself. Saw the whole

place, as a matter of fact. That boy is alone there.

She smiles brightly, as if having invited them over to discuss

this year's charity fandango, takes the

Sheriff's arm, starts away. The Sheriff nods as he goes.

Sam and Lila are alone now, at the curb, before the deserted

chapel. For a long moment they just stand there, their faces

as gray and overcast as the sky.

Sam takes her arm, starts walking her up the street toward

the spot where his pick-up truck is parked.

CAMERA FOLLOWS them.

Lila does not answer. They reach the truck. Lila looks

directly at Sam as he helps her into the cab.

He slams the door, hurries around truck, gets into driver's

seat, starts motor. As the truck drives off,

SAM AND LILA IN TRUCK - (PROCESS - HIGHWAY)

For a moment, both are silent; Sam watching the road as if

there were other cars on it, Lila staring at nothing in

particular, except perhaps her own inner fear.

Sam looks as if he'd like to say something humorous, something

to cheer her. He cannot. He remains silent.

When we woke up one morning and found ourselves orphans,

Mary quit college and got a job, so I could go to college.

Lila looks quizzically at him, is too concerned to pursue

it.

Sam slows the truck to a stop, sighs, starts to light up a

cigarette. Lila looks questioningly and impatiently at him.

As truck starts to drive on,

EXT. THE BATES MOTEL AND HOUSE - (DAY)

The place is empty and silent and washed dirty by the deep

gray of the cloudy sky. We see Sam's truck turning into the

driveway and pulling to a stop. After a moment, Sam and Lila

get out of the truck.

FRESH ANGLE

Close on Sam and Lila as they meet on the porch side of the

truck. The motel office and the house beyond can be seen in

b.g. of shot. Sam and Lila merely stare for a moment, then

turn and gaze up at the house. There is no figure in the

window and the shade is drawn. Same goes to the office door,

peers in, knocks, opens door, enters. Lila remains on the

driveway, beside the truck.

INT. THE MOTHER'S ROOM - (DAY)

CLOSE ANGLE on Norman standing by the window. He has pulled

the curtains very slightly apart, is staring out and down at

the motel, his eyes studying the lone figure of Lila, who is

standing by the truck and looking up at the house.  Norman

studies her, and as her eyes look up at this very window he

closes the curtains, turns away.

We see the suspicion and fear in his face, the surge of panic

and his struggle to contain it. Then he goes away. CAMERA

remains on window, shooting out and down, and through the

frail curtains we can see Sam as he comes out of the motel

office and joins Lila.

EXT. MOTEL OFFICE - CLOSE ON SAM AND LILA

Sam takes Lila's arm.

He starts with her toward the path which leads to the old

house. CAMERA PANS with them, and as they turn around the

office corner, they see Norman coming down the path toward

them. They pause and Norman pauses. He does not smile, nor

speak. His usual grin and soft friendliness are gone;

containment and impassivity lie in their place.

Norman walks past Sam, giving him the sort of quick,

disapproving glance one gives a man who is obviously lying,

goes onto the porch and into the office. Sam and Lila follow

Norman.

INT. MOTEL OFFICE - (DAY)

Norman crosses to the desk, goes behind it, takes the key to

cabin number twelve off the keyboard. Sam and Lila have

entered and are almost to the desk-counter by this time.

Sam eyes scan the counter, looking for a registration book.

Norman stares at Sam, as if he'd like to yell at him, call

him "liar." Instead he reaches under the desk counter, brings

out the registration book. Lila moves closer, studies the

book as Sam signs in. Sam signs "Joe and Mrs. Johnson."  The

signature and city of "Marie Samuels" and after it, the

notation "Cabin One," can be clearly seen three registrations

above Sam's.

When Sam has finished he closes book, hands it back to Norman.

Norman does not take it, starts out from behind counter.

As he starts for the door, Sam laughs. Norman stops, turns,

looks at him.

Sam smiles as if at a funny remark, takes a bill out of his

pocket.

Norman returns to Sam, takes the extended bill, is about to

start out again.

Norman goes reluctantly behind counter, lays down the key to

cabin twelve, takes a receipt book out of the drawer under

counter, starts to write. Lila steps up to the desk, picks

up the key, quickly, starts out.

Norman looks up, gazes her as she goes out door.

EXT. THE MOTEL - (DAY)

Lila comes along the porch, pauses before cabin one, tries

the door. It opens. She closes it quickly as she hears Sam

and Norman coming out of the motel office, continues on down

the porch.

He goes on down the porch, doesn't even glance at cabin one,

walks quickly and catches up to Lila just as she reaches

cabin twelve. CAMERA REMAINS with Norman, who is standing by

the office door, looking after Sam and Lila, his face alert

and no longer impassive. He waits a moment, after they have

closed their cabin door, then crosses to the pickup truck.

CAMERA MOVES with him. He studies the truck, then leans in

through the driver's window, twists the registration card

around, reads it.

It gives the correct name and address of Sam Loomis.

Norman comes back out of the window, glances once more toward

cabin twelve, then at the old house. His suspicions are

confirmed, and now there is the relaxation of relief in his

face. He takes on a purposeful air, turns, strides up the

path, up onto the porch of the house, opens the door, goes

in.

INT. CABIN TWELVE - (DAY)

Lila is at the cabin's rear window, looking out, straining

for a glimpse of the old house, which cannot be seen from

the window of this cabin.

She turns, frustrated, anxious. Sam is standing at the foot

of the bed, staring at the smooth coverlet, his brow creased

in a sadness.

He pulls his eyes from the bed, crosses to the desk, sits

wearily, lights a cigarette. Lila watches him for a moment,

feels a real compassion, goes to the bed, sits on its edge,

turns again and looks at Sam's back.

Sam considers a moment, nods agreement, rises.

He goes to the door, opens it slightly, looks out, then,

back to Lila:

Lila goes to the door. He holds it open and she goes out.

EXT. THE MOTEL - (DAY)

Sam closes the door, joins Lila, takes her hand.

Together they walk along the porch in the direction of Cabin

One. CAMERA FOLLOWS. They pause before the door of Cabin

One. Sam motions Lila to wait, to hold still, then goes on

to the office, opens the door, calls in:

He waits, there is no response. He goes in and in a moment

comes back out, closes the door, goes to Lila.

She has already opened the door of Cabin One and has started

to enter.

INT. CABIN ONE - (DAY)

The blinds are closed and the room is almost night-dark.

Sam comes in after Lila, closes the door behind him.

For a moment they just gaze at the room, as if willing it to

tell them some satisfactory story.

Neither speaks. Then, in dark silence, they begin to search,

going methodically and thoroughly through all drawers, the

closet, the desk, searching under the bed and in dark corners,

not knowing what they expect to find and yet expecting to

find some thing. Lila opens the bathroom door, looks in. The

windowless room is very dark. She switches on the light,

goes in. Sam moves toward the bathroom, is about to follow

her in when he notices which room it is and automatically

catches himself up, backs out.

Sam goes in, glances around, nods. Lila goes through the

medicine cabinet, finds nothing but a glass and two tiny

tabs of soap. Sam leans against the door-jamb, looks at the

tub, the shower pipe above it. He continues to stare, more

interested suddenly, as if bothered by some off-key evidence

he can't put his finger on. Then he looks at the shower

curtain rod.

And realizes there is no shower curtain. He frowns, is about

to say something when Lila, who has been momentarily out of

shot, interrupts.

Sam turns, CAMERA TURNS, and we see Lila is standing above

the toilet bowl, a tiny piece of wet paper stuck to the tip

of her right index finger.

Sam lifts the piece of paper off her finger, studies it,

takes out his wallet, presses the wet scrap to his driver's

license shield, puts it back in the wallet and puts the wallet

away.

She starts out of the bathroom. Sam takes hold of her arm,

stops her.

CAMERA STARTS TO PAN AWAY from them, moves slowly over the

room, very slowly.

CAMERA HAS PANNED clear across to the opposite wall now, and

is moving up closer and closer to the tiny-flowered wall

paper, finally closing in on one small rosebud.

Now we see that the rosebud has been cut out, that this is

the reverse side of the hole Norman peeped through to watch

Mary. And we see the pupil of Norman's eye now.

The eye moves away and there is a brief flash of light before

the hole is covered, on the other side, by the wall-hung

painting.

FRESH ANGLE - LILA AND SAM

They are about to start out. Sam stops her again.

Lila nods quickly, hurries to the door. Sam gets to it first,

opens it a slight crack, looks out, then opens it wide enough

for Lila and Himself to pass through.

EXT. THE MOTEL - (DAY)

ANGLE CLOSE on cabin one as Lila comes out, turns to her

left, goes along porch toward cabin twelve. Sam remains at

the door, then turns right, heading for the path. As he passes

the office, he is shocked to see Norman standing just inside

the open door.

Sam starts into the office. Just before going in, he glances

down the long porch, sees Lila standing outside the door of

cabin twelve, waves her a tiny "all clear" signal.

LILA

CAMERA ANGLES to include Lila and her point of view.

She watches Sam disappear into the office, waits until she

hears the door close, then looks about for another way to

reach the house. She sees the small alley at the end of this

L of cabins, starts toward it.

EXT. REAR OF MOTEL - S.C.U. LILA - (DAY)

Behind the motel Lila hesitates. She looks ahead.

LONG SHOT - (DAY)

The old house standing against the sky.

CLOSE UP - (DAY)

Lila moves forward.

LONG SHOT - (DAY)

The CAMERA approaching the house.

CLOSE UP - (DAY)

Lila glances toward the back of Norman's parlor. She moves

on.

LONG SHOT - (DAY)

The house coming nearer.

CLOSE UP - (DAY)

Lila looks up at the house. She moves forward purposefully.

S.L.S. - (DAY)

The house and the porch.

CLOSE UP - (DAY)

Lila stops at the house and looks up. She glances back.

She turns to the house again.

S.L.S. - (DAY)

The CAMERA MOUNTS the steps to the porch.

C.U. - (DAY)

Lila puts out her hand.

S.C.U. - (DAY)

Lila's hand pushes the door open. We see the hallway.

Lila ENTERS PAST CAMERA.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY OF OLD HOUSE - (DAY)

Lila closes the door, remains by it for a moment, quiet,

listening. Her eyes scan the layout, the closed door which

leads off the hallway, to the dining room on the right and

the parlor on the left. Down at the end of the hall is the

kitchen, the door wide open, the room beyond dim and silent.

She notices the stairs leading down to the basement, stares

at them, then back to the stairs leading to the second floor.

She starts forward, and seems about to investigate the parlor

and dining room.

INT. THE MOTEL OFFICE - (DAY)

Norman is behind the counter, standing, staring at Sam who

is sitting relaxedly on a small sofa. Norman has the look of

one who is protecting himself, as if the counter were a

protective wall against the threatening world across it.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY AND STAIRS OF OLD HOUSE - (DAY)

Lila is halfway up the stairs. As she climbs she is startled

by the creaks and groans of the old wood of the steps. She

steps more carefully. CAMERA remains at foot of stair, TILTING

UP as Lila climbs. She pauses at the head of the stair. The

door on her right, which opens into the mother's room, is

closed. To her left is another door, half-open. Directly

before her is a third door, closed. She holds a long moment,

trying to picture in her mind which room would look out on

the front of the house, decides, chooses the correct door,

the one on her right. She goes to it, knocks lightly.

INT. THE MOTHER'S ROOM (DAY) - CLOSE ANGLE ON DOOR

We hear Lila's second knock, then, faintly, her soft call.

There is quiet for a moment, then the door begins to open,

and we see Lila. She stands on the threshold, looking in at

the room, instantly disturbed by it, almost chilled, her

expression indicating an impulse to close the door and go

away from this room forever.

After a moment, she enters, leaving the door open behind

her. CAMERA PULLS BACK AND AWAY and we now see the room as

Lila sees it.

It is ornate, damask-and-mahogany, thick and warm and ripe,

an olla podrida of mismated furnishings and bric-a-brac of

the last century. The bed is four poster, but uncanoped; the

dressing table is fancy and flounced with satin; there is a

great chiffonier, a big-doored wardrobe, a large, oval, full-

length pier-glass (this against the wall directly opposite

the door), a satin recamier, an upholstered armchair by the

window, a white marble fireplace, its grate cold but piled

with ashes.

And there is in the room an unmistakably live quality, as if

even though it is presently unoccupied, it has not been long

vacated by some musty presence.

Lila glances at the bed. The damask coverlet is thrown over

it, but it is not neat, there is the imprint of a body on

it, a body which obviously has slept in a curled-up, womb-

like position. Lila stares at it for a moment, up, then goes

to the dressing table. Its top is scattered with boxes and

jars of cosmetics and creams, traces of fresh powder, an

opened bottle or perfume, a comb, and a brush with traces of

hair in its bristles. Lila moves on, catches a glimpse of

herself in the pier-glass, is startled, turns away, goes to

the chiffonier, is about to open a drawer, sees the high

wardrobe out of the corner of her eyes, goes to it,

hesitantly. She opens one door. Fresh, clean, well pressed

dresses hang neatly. Lila opens the other door. The sweaters

and dresses and robes hang freely, none in moth-proof, storage-

type bags. There is even a well-brushed collar of foxes.

Along the floor of the wardrobe is a line of clean, polished

shoes. Lila stares, then closes the door, turns, looks once

again over the whole room, starts out,

INT. THE UPSTAIRS HALLWAY OF THE OLD HOUSE - (DAY)

Lila comes out of the mother's room, closes the door behind

her, looks down the stairs, then starts across the hall to

the room whose door is half-open. The room within is dark,

the shades drawn full.

Lila pauses on the threshold, reaches in, feels the wall,

throws on a switch.

INT. MOTEL OFFICE - (DAY)

Sam has risen, is standing by the counter now.

Norman snaps a sharp, fast, ugly look at him.

INT. NORMAN'S ROOM IN THE OLD HOUSE - (DAY)

Lila is standing in the doorway, staring at the room in sick

dismay. The room is grotesque, a horrible, ludicrous fantasy

of childhood held beyond the point of decency.

It is a small room. The walls are fancied with romping

silhouettes of teddy-bears and sailboats and carousels and

fat cows jumping over aghast moons. The bed is small, far

too short for a man of Norman's height. And yet the rumpled

covers indicate that it is in this bed that Norman sleeps.

Next to the bed is an old-fashioned toy chest. On its top

there are a bird-in-a-cage lamp, a plain-bound book, and an

ash tray filled with ashes and cigarette stubs. A grown man's

shirt hangs on a child's clothes tree.

Against one wall there is a narrow, high bookcase filled

with thick, unchildish-looking books. On the small, white

chest of drawers there is an old, child's victrola. The record

on the turntable is discovered, on close inspection, to be

Beethoven's Eroica Symphony.

Lila studies the room, fascinated and repelled. She glances

at the bookcase, comes into the room, goes to the bookcase

and pulls out a thick, large, plain-bound book. She opens

it. Her eyes go wide in shock. And then there is disgust.

She slams the book closed, drops it.

INT. THE MOTEL OFFICE - (DAY)

Norman, behind the counter, has moved back against the wall.

Sam is still on the other side of the counter, but is leaning

forward, his eyes hard on Norman's face.

Norman's face is no longer expressionless. It has the stark,

high sheen of a cornered animal.

He is close to panic now. He turns, swiftly, dashes back

into his private parlor. Sam goes quickly around the counter,

follows.

INT. NORMAN'S PRIVATE PARLOR - (DAY)

Norman hears Sam following, wants to run, to never be reached

by this man. He crosses the small room, drawn to the rear

window, as if he might fly through it. Sam enters, pauses.

Norman turns, back against the window, as unable to fly away

as are the many still, stuffed birds. Sam registers a brief

flicker of reaction when he sees the birds, but continues to

gaze at Norman, hard.

Something self-assured and confident in Sam's tone gives

Norman a new, more terrified alarm. He turns his head, glances

out the window at the old house. He looks back at Sam and

there is terror in his voice.

Sam does not respond, smiles a half-smile, turns to examine

a stuffed owl. Norman looks back at the house.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALL OF THE OLD HOUSE - (DAY)

Lila, shaken and disturbed, almost sickened, is coming out

of Norman's room. She has left the light on. She pauses in

the middle of the landing, looks at the closed door opposite

the stairs, goes to it, opens it, sees that it is the

bathroom, pulls the door to, turns, starts toward the stairs.

INT. NORMAN'S PRIVATE PARLOR - (DAY)

Sam is lying on the floor, face downward, unmoving. A

candlestick is on the floor, close by his head, still rocking

as if just dropped. OVER SHOT comes the SOUND of Norman's

footsteps and CAMERA TURNS in time to catch a brief glimpse

of him going out into the office, almost at a run.

INT. STAIRWAY OF THE OLD HOUSE - (DAY)

Lila is on the top step, looking down toward CAMERA.

She is listening, hoping to hear some human sound, some sound

she might follow, pursue. She hears nothing. She starts down

the stairs. Just below the halfway step, she looks at the

front door, sees out through the door window:

LILA'S VIEWPOINT - (DAY)

Norman coming.

INT. STAIRWAY OF THE OLD HOUSE - (DAY)

For a moment Lila panics, then she hurries down the steps,

cannot go in the direction of the front door, remembers the

stairway behind her, turns and runs in that direction. The

SOUND of Norman bounding up the porch steps can be heard.

Lila turns and dashes down the stairs which lead to the

basement, going down far enough to conceal herself, crouching

there.

Norman enters the hallway, closes the door softly, listens.

He glances once in the direction of the basement stairs. He

seems about to smile, when suddenly all expression vanishes

from his face, and he appears to enter a no-place, no-time

state. He crosses to the stairway, goes up.

Lila remains crouched on the basement stairs, listening to

the SOUNDS of Norman. His footsteps on the stairs followed

by the fast noises of doors opening, of fast moving about an

upstairs room. Convinced that he is searching the upstairs

for her, she decides to chance an escape. She starts up the

steps, is about to turn into the hallway when her eye is

caught by a glimmer of light down in the basement. She pauses,

looks down, sees the crack of light coming from behind the

not entirely closed door to the fruit cellar. The swift moving

SOUNDS of Norman continue to come from upstairs.

Lila is torn, knows she should get out of the house while

she has the chance, is unable to resist the impulse to check

that hidden-looking room down below, a room in which, she

desperately believes, there must lie some answer to what

happened to Mary. She turns and goes softly and quickly down

the stairs.

INT. THE BASEMENT OF THE OLD HOUSE - (DAY)

Lila reaches the bottom, stops, listens, hears the stairboards

creaking as footsteps fall hard and measured upon them. She

turns, pulls open the fruit cellar door, looks in. The woman

is sitting in a comfortable chair, the back of the chair,

and the woman, turned to the door. Lila calls a harsh,

frightened whisper.

Lila goes into the room.

INT. THE FRUIT CELLAR

Lila goes to the chair, touches it. The touch disturbs the

figure. It starts to turn, slowly, stiffly, a clock-wise

movement. Lila looks at it in horror. It is the body of a

woman long dead. The skin is dry and pulled away from the

mouth and the teeth are revealed as in the skeleton's smile.

The eyes are gone from their sockets, the bridge of the nose

has collapsed, the hair is dry and wild, the cheeks are

sunken, the leathery-brown skin is powdered and rouged and

flaky. The body is dressed in a high-neck, clean, well-pressed

dress, obviously recently laundered and hand-ironed.

The movement of this stuffed, ill-preserved cadaver, turning

as if in response to Lila's call and touch, is actually

graceful, ballet-like, and the effect is terrible and obscene.

Lila gazes for one flicker of a deathly moment, then begins

to scream, a high, piercing, dreadful scream.

And Lila's scream is joined by another scream, a more

dreadful, horrifying scream which comes from the door behind

her.

Lila turns.

NORMAN

His face is contorted. He wears a wild wig, a mockery of a

woman's hair. He is dressed in a high-neck dress which is

similar to that worn by the corpse of his mother. His hand

is raised high, poised to strike at Lila. There is a long

breadknife in it.

LILA

Close on her face. She is dumb-struck. Her eyes are screaming.

BACK TO NORMAN

As he is about to start forward, a man's hand reaches in

from the doorway behind, grabs Norman's wrist. Sam comes

through the door, still holding tight to the wrist, pulling

back the arm and at the same time throwing himself at Norman,

football tackle style.

SERIES OF CUTS - THE FIGHT

Norman and Sam, struggling. The wild fury in Norman's face,

the mad noise of his screams and vile curses. The terrified,

fight-to-the-death look of Sam. The still, staring Lila.

MRS. BATES

A close of her face, She appears to be watching and enjoying

the fight. Over the shot, the SOUNDS of the struggle, the

screams of Norman.

EXT. COURTHOUSE AT READING - (NIGHT)

There are many people gathered about the steps, the curious

and the concerned and the morbid. At the curb, a couple of

newspaper cars, two or three police cars, and a mobile unit

truck from the local television outlet. There is noise, and

chattering as questions are asked and answers given, and the

sounds of traffic, and of the television equipment being

moved into the courthouse, for on-the-scene reporting, and

the stern voices of policemen trying to keep people back.

The scene has a bright glare about it, that quality of sudden

light thrown on a fearful darkness.

CLOSER ANGLE ON STEPS OF COURTHOUSE

A POLICEMAN trying to make way for the television men,

muttering "keep back," etc., to the spectators. A TELEVISION

MAN, carrying a piece of equipment goes through door, and

CAMERA FOLLOWS him into the courthouse vestibule.

Here, too, there is a crowd, composed of Policemen, Reporters,

Television Men. The Television Men we have been following

stops beside a Policeman.

Over this exchange, the buzz of other voices, the movement

of men. CAMERA MOVES ON, down the corridor, gets to the door

of the office of the Chief of Police just as a young fellow

with a carton box filled with paper containers of sent-out-

for coffee reaches this door. CAMERA HOLDS as the COFFEE BOY

pauses a moment, then goes into the room.

INT. OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE - (NIGHT)

Lila is seated in a chair, Sam standing close by. A bit apart

from them, we see Sheriff Chambers, in quiet conference with

the CHIEF OF POLICE, the COUNTY SHERIFF, the DISTRICT

ATTORNEY.

The Coffee Boy stands in the doorway. Sam goes to him, takes

a container of coffee from the box, carries it to Lila,

checking the notation on the lid as he goes.

MED. CLOSE ON SAM AND LILA

Sam smiles encouragingly, hands her the coffee. Sheriff

Chambers ENTERS SHOT, gives Sam a container of coffee he has

brought for him. Sam takes it, nods a thank you.

For a moment no one speaks. Lila looks badly shaken, Sam

disheveled, but contained.

Sam looks a question at Sheriff Chambers. Chambers shrugs

doubtfully.

Lila is about to answer, when she sees someone come into the

room and rises anxiously. Sam and Sheriff Chambers turn,

follow her gaze.

INT. OFFICE OF CHIEF OF POLICE - FULL SHOT

A young man with a serious, frowning face has just come into

the room. He is DR. SIMON, the Psychiatrist.

He goes to the desk where the box of coffee containers has

been placed, takes up a container.

Everyone gazes at him, mystified. He speaks as he removes

lid from coffee container.

Lila begins to weep softly, for Mary, for Arbogast, for

Norman, for all the destroyed human beings of this world.

Sam bends beside her, puts his arm about her, comforts her.

A POLICE GUARD puts his head in the door, speaks, in a near-

whisper, to the Chief of Police. The Guard is carrying a

folded blanket over his arm.

The Chief of Police nods. The Guard goes away, and CAMERA

FOLLOWS him out of the room and out into the hallway. Guard

moves through the waiting men, heading down the corridor.

INT. ANOTHER CORRIDOR IN COURTHOUSE

A narrower corridor in the rear of the building. In f.g. of

shot, we see a door, the top half of which is wire-covered

glass. A GUARD in uniform is posted by the door, looking

reprovingly at the two or three people trying to get a glance

into the room.

The Police Guard, carrying the blanket, comes down this

corridor, goes to the door. CAMERA MOVES CLOSE. The uniformed

Guard opens the door, allows the man to go in.

Shot is RAKED so that we can not see into the room.

After a moment, the Guard comes out and the uniformed Guard

closes and locks the door and we

INT. NORMAN'S DETENTION ROOM - (NIGHT)

The walls are white and plain. There is no window.

There is no furniture except the straight-back chair in which

Norman sits, in the center of the room. The room has a quality

of no-whereness, of calm separation from the world.

The Police Guard has placed the blanket on Norman's knees.

Norman, as we come upon him, is lifting the blanket, unfolding

it. His face, although without makeup and without the

surrounding softness of the wig, has a certain femininity

about it, a softness about the mouth and a kind of arch

womanliness about the brows.

Calmly, Norman places the blanket about his shoulders, as if

it were a cashmere shawl. CAMERA REMAINS in a position so

that our view of Norman is a FULL ONE. When the shawl is in

position, and Norman is settled, we HEAR, OVER SHOT, the

voice of his mother, coming from the calm of his thoughts.

A fly buzzes close, and then continues buzzing and flying

about Norman's face.

Norman continues to gaze ahead into nothing.

THE SWAMP

As END TITLES FADE IN, we see the swamp, the chain of a tow-

truck. The chain is attached to Mary's car. The car is coming

out of the swamp.

