TITLE CARD... BELEM BRAZIL - JULY...

EXT. BELEM STREETS - NIGHT

A taxi careens down narrow roadways at breakneck speeds.

INT. TAXI - NIGHT

In the back seat is WHITTLESLEY. Early 40's, the wreck of a once

handsome man. Unshaven.  Sweat stained.  Rail thin.  Scratches on his

arms, a fresh scar on one cheek.  As the taxi roars downhill towards

the harbor, Whittlesley leans over the front seat.  (Italics indicate

Portuguese to be subtitled)

Whittlesley pulls out A KNIFE, puts it to the driver's jugular vein.

Sweat pouring down his brow, the driver re-doubles his speed.

EXT. BELEM STREETS - NIGHT

The taxi swerves around a corner, nearly crashing into a fruit cart,

flies out of sight.

EXT. HARBOR - BELEM - NIGHT

Light rain obscures the bulky outlines of tethered freighters.  We hear

faint laughter leavened with Portuguese phrases, distant Calypso music

from waterfront bars.  One of the smaller boats, the SANTA LUCIA, is

loading as the TAXI fishtails to a halt.

Whittlesley gets out, sees the boat still at dock.  His face floods

with relief.

He tosses a handful of bills into the driver's lap, sprints up the

pier as the driver shouts curses after him in Portuguese.  Whittlesley

shoves past the dock hands as the last load goes onto the Santa Lucia.

The boat's engines churn to life.

The sailors hold Whittlesley back.

Several crew members murmur the word "loco".  Hearing the commotion, a

squat man wearing a billed hat and smoking a cigar approaches.  CAPTAIN

FRANCO.

Whittlesley runs a trembling hand through his hair, trying to keep

control and appear reasonable.

Whittlesley's fists clench spasmodically.  Franco looks to his men.

Franco barks an order and several sailors grab Whittlesley by the

arms.  They start to lead him back to shore.

The sailors laugh.  But with an almost super-human strength born of

desperation, Whittlesley throws them off.  He pulls out his wallet.

Whittlesley throws the money down on the deck.  The breeze scatters the

bills across the bow and all the men, including Captain Franco,

scramble for the money, chattering in Portuguese.  While they are

occupied, Whittlesley slips by unnoticed and disappears below deck.

INT. HOLD - SANTA LUCIA - NIGHT

Whittlesley ducks between cages of goats, boxes of farm equipment, his

movements jerky with panic.  As he continues searching, the camera

moves past him, into the darkness of the hold.  We hear Whittlesley

mumbling between low, ragged breaths.  At the back of the boat the

camera finds...

A STACK OF CRATES... clearly labeled NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM.  Move in on

these as... The CRATES VIBRATE.  The boat has started to move!

Whittlesley stands bolt upright, realizing what's going on.

Too late.  He turns to run back on deck but then stops, sniffs the air.

A look of desperation fills his eyes.  With one hand he pulls out THE

KNIFE, and unexpectedly puts it to HIS OWN NECK.  Better to kill

himself than face what comes next.  The knife touches...

A

Whittlesley stares wide-eyed into the blackness of the hold.  The goats

start BLEATING in blind panic.  A shaft of moonlight comes through a

porthole as the boat turns.  The moonlight falls on

THE CRATES.  Whittlesley's eyes lock onto them and he inches towards

them, drawn inexorably closer... closer...

He begins mumbling a prayer.

MOVE IN ON HIS EYES... filled with dread as he falls to his knees,

staring, always staring at THE CRATES...

EXT. DOCKS - NIGHT

The crew tends to business and the Santa Lucia points out of the

harbor, disappears into the night.

EXT. LOUISIANNA COAST - DAY... TITLE CARD... JUNE

Squad cars roar down the back roads, sirens flashing.  In the center of

the column is an unmarked car.

INT. UNMARKED CAR - DAY

At the wheel is a strikingly dignified and imposing black man wearing

a simple, old-fashioned dark suit, narrow black tie, and white shirt.

This is SPECIAL AGENT PENDERGAST, FBI.

A BACH SONATA for violin and harpsichord plays on the tape deck.

Pendergast hums along as he drives.  A SMALL TOWN COP rides shotgun.

The cop is intimidated both by Pendergast and the morning's events.  He

sweats heavily as he brings Pendergast up to date.

Pendergast nods his approval, resumes humming along with a

particularly intricate harpsichord riff.  As always, the man is

unflappable and totally calm as he drives.

EXT. LOUISIANA BEACH - DAY

The ocean is still, the air stifling and close.  A hot sun beats down

on the deck of the SANTA LUCIA.  The boat lists at a crazy angle where

it has been washed up on the shore.  At first glance, it appears to be

deserted.  A barrel rolls back and forth as the boat is rocked by each

successive wave.  We hear sirens approaching and the phalanx of squad

cars pulls up.  Joining them now are TWO AMBULANCES.

PENDERGAST gets out along with the others.  All of the cops immediately

cover their faces, gagging violently at the smell.  Pendergast sniffs

once and frowns.  Apart from this, he doesn't react.

Pendergast nods.  The cops all fall back in revulsion.  They watch from

a safe distance as Pendergast approaches the ghost ship.  His shiny

laced wing-tips sink in the sand.  He leans down, pulls them off one at

a time.  He balls both socks, puts them carefully into his shoes and

proceeds barefoot towards the boat.

Using a piece of driftwood as a plank, Pendergast leans it against the

Santa Lucia.  With surprising agility, he leaps up the plank to the

deck.  At the top he touches a rail.  It's covered in a DARK STICKY

LIQUID.

BLOOD.  Flies buzz loudly.  A LARGE MACHETE lies abandoned in the stern.

Chairs are overturned.  A DEAD GOAT, eviscerated, lies in the bow.  A

lifeboat hangs half off the stern.  Pendergast moves aft.  The COPS

watch from the sand below, unwilling to get any closer.  Pendergast

hears A DOOR slamming open and closed.  He follows the noise and

sees...

THE DOOR TO THE HOLD.  He approaches, pushes it open and looks down the

stairwell.  Below deck are

BODIES... stacks of them.  They've been TORN TO SHREDS.

THE CAMERA MOVES down to one particular man who is nearest the top of

the stairs.  It's CAPTAIN FRANCO.  His face is frozen in a howl of

terror.  Flies congregate in the eye sockets.  With his foot, Pendergast

nudges the body over.  The skull has been torn open.

FADE TO BLACK:

Silence then we begin hearing sounds of the city... horns, traffic,

construction work.

SUPER TITLE... NEW YORK CITY, FOUR MONTHS LATER as we...

FADE IN:

ON A

to the one seen on Whittlesley.  Widen to...

EXT. ROOFTOP GARDEN - MARGO'S NEW YORK APARTMENT - MORNING

And the woman wearing the necklace... MARGO GREEN.  She sips her morning

coffee as she makes notes on several large FOSSILIZED TEETH.  Her hair

is neatly combed.  No make-up.  She doesn't need it.  She has a natural,

unselfconscious beauty and a mind like a steel trap.

At Margo's elbow is a small T.V.  A CNN world news report plays.

Margo's New York Times is open to the crossword puzzle, which she's

been doing rapidly, in ink.  Clearly this is a woman who likes order,

with a mind that can handle more than one thing at a time.

An alarm on her watch beeps and she fills in the last two lines of the

crossword puzzle, makes one final note on the fossil specimens, and

shuts off the T.V.  She reaches for her back pack and looks out at

CENTRAL PARK with remarkably clear eyes.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - MORNING

HELICOPTER SHOT... Swooping over the fall foliage of the Park, a riot

of color and botanical life... The camera picks out MARGO'S BICYCLE

making its way along the winding roads, dodging taxi cabs.  Margo wears

jeans, a work shirt, a fine blue gabardine jacket with a rhinestone

DOUBLE HELIX PIN.  On her back is a LEATHER BACK PACK which holds her

lap top computer.  She emerges from the park, catches the green light

and rolls up to...

EXT. MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY - DAY

As Margo arrives, the camera moves up and over the building, comes to

rest on the imposing turrets, intersecting roof lines, and Gothic

arches of the MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY.  This is not an ordinary

building; it's a 19th century monument to science and mankind.  The

structure fills an entire city block.

Happy visitors pour into the museum as Margo takes the imposing wide

stone steps two at a time.  We hear SCREAMS of pleasure and release,

the normal raucous noises of a large group of THIRD GRADE CHILDREN.

Margo is amused to find herself surrounded by kids.  Their teacher,

MRS. BEASLEY, a stern woman in glasses with a thick New York accent,

calls after them as they all head inside.

Ignoring Mrs. Beasley, TWO BOYS charge past Margo.  HENRY and LARRY.

Henry has a buzz cut; Larry has rasta dread knots.  Both are 8 years

old, wear high top sneakers and shorts so big they graze their ankles.

Reluctantly, Henry and Larry slow to a rapid race-walk as they reach

the huge doorway flanked by two Northwest Coast Indian totem poles.

Above the doorway WORKMEN are hanging a LARGE BANNER.  It reads:

"SUPERSTITION EXHIBIT... OPENING OCT. 29"

INT. MUSEUM ROTUNDA/STAIRWELL - DAY

The school children burst into a three story space dominated by a

life-sized statue of a HERD OF ELEPHANTS.  The kids chatter with

excitement, look up in awe.  Margo nods to a GUARD who smiles as she

pins on a plastic I.D.

Henry watches Margo pass through the turnstiles without paying.  He

swaggers over.

Mrs. Beasley heads into the museum and Larry and Henry merge with the

rest of the kids.  Margo turns towards the stairwell, passing...

IAN CUTHBERT... Museum Director... a pudgy man in wire rim glasses who

dresses and thinks like a banker.  Hired for his amazing ability to

raise money, Cuthbert is one of a new generation of Museum Directors

whose focus must always be on the bottom line.

Cuthbert waves merrily.  A workman uses a LADDER in the stairwell.

Cuthbert is about to walk under the ladder, stops and carefully walks

around it instead.  Margo smiles, goes on upstairs.

INT. MUSEUM BASEMENT - DAY

Cuthbert enters from the lower stairwell.  He is now in one of the

hundreds of areas of the museum that are closed to the the general

public.  He follows a labyrinthine route down a dim passageway lined

with rumbling steam pipes.  There are storage areas on both sides

labeled ORNITHOLOGY, HERPITOLOGY, CENTRAL ASIA EXPEDITIONS, AKELEY

EXPEDITIONS, WHALE BONE FOSSILS and so on.  Finally Cuthbert comes to a

door marked

"WHITTLESLEY EXPEDITIONS 1978-95".  Cuthbert pauses and gets out a key,

but to his surprise the door pushes open.  The lock and doorknob

mechanism are both broken off!  Cuthbert frowns.

He goes inside.

INT. WHITTLESLEY COLLECTION BASEMENT - DAY

Cuthbert flips on a light to see a tall, narrow space.  Stacks of metal

shelves reach up into the gloom.  Everywhere we see spears, shields,

masks, various artifacts.  Ancient tribal costumes lie shrouded in

plastic like corpses against the walls.  And in the middle of the

gloom, sitting ominously in the light of a sole hanging bulb are...

THE WHITTLESLEY CRATES.  The same ones last seen in the hold of the

ill-fated Santa Lucia.  They are scattered about in disarray.  One in

particular has been broken open, its contents spread on the floor.

Cuthbert mutters in surprise and dismay, kneels by the crate.

Cuthbert feels gently through the packing material, lets out a sigh of

relief as he pulls out a figurine.  It is a small, beautifully carved

statue of A MONSTER crouched on all fours.

The room falls totally silent as Cuthbert studies THE RELIC.  It's a

truly frightening piece... massive, razor sharp claws, large round

nostrils, enormous teeth and red rimmed eyes.  Suddenly Cuthbert sees a

DROP OF BLOOD on his hand!  He's been CUT!

Cuthbert rises, shakes his finger in pain.  Blood drips on the floor.

He pulls out his pocket handkerchief and wraps the wound.  The

handkerchief rapidly soaks through.  Suddenly a HAND CLAMPS on

Cuthbert's shoulder!  He's not alone!  He lets out a YELP, almost

dropping the Relic and spins to see...

A MUSEUM GUARD standing behind him.  His nameplate reads... BEAUREGARD.

He's a gentle young fellow with white blond hair and a rolling

southern accent.

Cuthbert holds up the RELIC of THE MONSTER.  Beauregard stares.

Beauregard sees Cuthbert's cut finger.

Beauregard studies the door as Cuthbert heads out with the figurine.

Cuthbert glances at the evil face of Mbwun, pales.  As he exits, HOLD

ON BEAUREGARD, left alone with the crates.

INT. PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY LAB - DAY

Huge centrifuges, hissing autoclaves, electrophoresis apparati,

glowing monitors, elaborate blown-glass distillation columns and

titration set-ups.  One of the most advanced technical facilities of

its kind.  And mixed in with all the modern machinery are

SKELETONS OF ALL KINDS.  Complete homo sapien specimens are scattered

around the room.  Standing midst all this is GREGORY KAWAKITA, early

twenties.  Kawakita makes sharp, jerky overhead movements with his left

hand, waving something about.  He's practicing casting.  We hear the

zing of a line and the whirring of the fly reel as MARGO ENTERS.  A fly

whips out, passing right under her nose.

The fly zooms across the room and lights on the shoulder of the third

skeleton from the end, labeled "Aleut, provenance unknown." Margo

rolls her eyes and Kawakita smiles with pride.

Kawakita reels in his line as Margo drops her backpack on her large

desk.  An enormous MICROSCOPE stands by the equally imposing computer

topped by a tiger skull.  A screen saver of an animated pterodactyl

plays.  Margo unpacks boxes of fossil teeth, hits some keys revealing

columns of seemingly indecipherable chemical equations on the computer

screen.

Margo straightens, stunned.

Margo is already out the door.

INT. CORRIDORS/STAIRWELL - MUSEUM - DAY

Margo charges through double doors leading into the southwest tower.

She half runs down an elegant, Edwardian fifth-floor corridor, her

footsteps lost in the thick carpet.  At the very end is a heavy oak

door bearing a plate entwined with bronze leaves that reads simply

"Dr. Frock".

INT. FROCK'S OFFICE - DAY

Margo bursts into the unique office, which is in startling contrast to

the modernity of her own.  Two large bow windows look out over the

park.  Upholstered Victorian chairs in a leaf motif sit on needlepoint

carpets featuring large red roses.  Plant specimens and drawings of

flora and fauna line the walls.  Cardboard boxes cover the floor.

Seated in a wheelchair is a white-haired man in a tweed jacket and a

loud floral tie.  Glasses slip down his nose.

This is DR. FROCK, and he's in the middle of packing.  He looks up,

smiles apologetically.

Frock goes back to his work packing to hide his emotion and Margo

moves to his side.  She pulls Frock's books back out of the box,

returns them to his desk.

She starts for the door and Frock wheels into her path.  Now for the

first time she sees what he's been carefully hiding... the deep pain in

his eyes.

Frock reaches out and squeezes her hand gently with a look that says

the discussion is over.

INT. MUSEUM HALLWAYS - DAY

Frock rolls back down the hall the way Margo just came.  Margo is

beside him, downcast.  She's not used to defeat.

Margo gets in the elevator reluctantly.  He smiles and meets her eye.

He waves her off merrily.  But once the doors close and Margo's out of

sight, Frock's smile fades and his shoulders sag.  He ducks his

wheelchair quickly into the Hall of African Mammals.

INT. HALL OF AFRICAN MAMMALS - AFTERNOON

Two stories high, dark and dramatic.  A very special display.  Dioramas

of lions, hippos, wart hogs etc.  In the middle is a large statue of a

GORILLA beating its chest.  Frock takes refuge in the darkness of the

exhibit.  His wheelchair sits in a quiet corner and we see him quickly

wipe the back of his hands across his eyes.

INT. MOLLUSKS EXHIBIT - DAY

Shells and sea life line the walls.  A sign announces the exhibit

"Mollusks and Our World."  The THIRD GRADE CLASS sweeps in.  Larry and

Henry start to sing "Mollusks and Our World" to the tune of "Welcome

to Our World", the F.A.O. Schwartz theme song.  Mrs. Beasley shoots

them the evil eye and Henry whines...

She starts to lecture about horseshoe crabs in a droning monotone.

Henry and Larry hang back.

They dart off down a side corridor and up a wide stairs.

INT. REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS ROOM - DAY

Larry and Henry emerge and walk wide-eyed among the cases of lizards,

chameleons, tortoises.  High windows light the room.  Outside the sun is

going down.  A woman pushing a child in a stroller exits and the boys

have the hall to themselves.

As Larry checks out, the huge, dragon-like reptile, which has just

sunk its Jaws into a stuffed boar.  Henry points to a stuffed Gecko

climbing vertically up the side of its case.

Larry already has his eyes on the far end of the hall where temporary

barricades have been put up to prevent access to the next room.

Painting is in progress.  Scaffolding just begs to be climbed.  Henry

runs over and starts up the scaffolding.  Larry hesitates.

Henry drops on the other side of the scaffolding and Larry follows.  In

a moment both disappear from sight.

INT. MUSEUM HALL OF BIRDS - DAY

Windowless and dark.  A closed display under maintenance.  Thousands of

little stuffed birds line the walls from floor to ceiling, white

cotton poking out of sightless eyes.  Henry and Larry enter and slow

down.  Larry's getting scared.

The boys continue onward more slowly, their footfalls echoing in the

silence.

INT. BACK HALLWAYS - DAY

The children are now far from the other tourists and their class.

Larry is frightened.  The hall takes a sharp dog-leg, ending in a

darkened cul-de-sac full of display cases filled with hideous carved

masks.  Against the side of the chamber is a barricade of wood which

looks much like a wall.  Henry tugs at it and the barricade moves.  He

looks behind.

Henry disappears behind the barricade leaving Larry completely alone

in the dark room with the Shaman masks.

Henry doesn't respond.  The lights in the cases throw strange shadows.

Larry starts to sniffle, falls to hiccuping, sits down.  He pulls on a

little flap of rubber that's coming off the toe of his sneaker, all

bravado gone.

No answer.  Larry rises and peeks behind the barricade.  He sees the

circular stair.  It descends into total darkness.  From below comes a

strange smell that makes Larry's nose wrinkle.

No answer.  Larry puts his first foot on the stair.

With no other option but staying alone in the dark, Larry follows

Henry down.

INT. SPIRAL STAIRCASE - DAY

Larry clutches the banister, whispers...

Larry takes another step.  Another.  And another.  He stops.  Below him he

hears SNUFFLING, rather like a large dog.  Larry freezes, starts to

cry.

Larry can barely see a dim hallway stretching out in two directions.

He pauses near the bottom of the stairs, eyes wide, holding his

breath.  There appears to be a darker area of SHADOW at the end of the

hall.  It's gliding TOWARDS THEM!

Suddenly something CLOSES on Larry's leg and he YELPS.  It's HENRY.

Henry pulls Larry the rest of the way down the stairs.  They stand

alone together in the darkness.  Henry hisses.

They keep their eyes locked on the shape at the end of the hall as

they back up, step by step.  Move in as their faces suddenly TWIST WITH

FEAR.  THE BOYS... SCREAM BLOODY MURDER... The sound echoes in the

darkness as we...

INT. MARGO'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Margo sits up in the darkness, gasping.  Moonlight cuts across the bed.

It takes a moment for her to realize that she's had a nightmare.  She

reaches for her light.  As she switches it on, we see a photo on her

bedside table.  It shows a group on a mountain in TIBET.  There are

several people with their arms slung around each other.  At the end is

a younger MARGO holding hands with JOHN WHITTLESLEY.  They appear to be

more than friends.

ON MARGO... she looks at the photo a moment, then turns off the light

and lies back, alone in her bed.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST - DAY

Yellow crime tape encircles the museum.  Dead leaves swirl in clusters

and the sky is overcast.  Overnight, fall turned to winter.  The front

of the museum is ringed with police cars.  Margo rides up on her bike

and pauses, startled at the sight.  We watch as she crosses, has a few

words with one of the officers who motions her to a side entrance.  She

wheels her bike under a stone tunnel as we pick up...

A TAXI CAB arriving at the front entrance.  Out steps SPECIAL AGENT

PENDERGAST.

INT. LOWER ROTUNDA - DAY

Margo enters.  The huge hall is taken up by an enormous boat carved

from the trunk of a single tree.  Inside it are mannequins of Northwest

Coast Indians.  Milling around are at least twenty COPS.  One

approaches.

Worried, Margo hands it over.

INT. SIDE HALL - MUSEUM - DAY

Several cops go by with tracking dogs.  Margo looks back at the dogs,

increasingly uneasy, almost bumps into...

HENRY AND LARRY.  Surprisingly, they are alive and well and seated with

MRS. BEASLEY outside an office.  Margo exchanges a look with both boys,

remembering them from yesterday.  A tentative smile starts but Henry

and Larry don't return it.  Serious and chastened, they drop their

eyes.  Margo continues on.

TWO COPS stand outside the door to the rest room, their backs turned

to Margo as she approaches.

Margo glances past them to see an OLDER MAN wearing the badge of a

NIGHT WATCHMAN, leaning over a sink.  He wipes his mouth.  Margo's eyes

move down to see... THE MAN'S SNEAKERS are soaked in blood.

INT. HALL OF ADVANCED FOSSIL MAMMALS - DAY

More cops gather, surrounded by skeletons of primates... humans,

monkeys, gorillas.  It's an odd sight.  They all look up with interest

as in walks the imposing figure of...

SPECIAL AGENT PENDERGAST.  He turns to a young eager beaver, OFFICER

BAILEY, flashes his badge.  Bailey straightens to attention.

INT. CIRCULAR STAIRWELL - DAY

Pendergast follows Bailey as they descend the rickety old metal

staircase that goes into the bowels of the museum.  The hall below them

is narrowand lit by an occasional bare bulb.  The stairway opens onto a

maze-like set of rooms in the basement.  Everything around them is

STREAKED and SPATTERED in BLOOD.  There are trails of it on the floor,

the walls, the overhead light.

Several COPS stand guard as DETECTIVE VINCE D'AGOSTA goes over the

area.  He is a round, balding, man with an unmistakable air of

authority.  A modern knight in shining armor in disguise...

disguise.  He has on a cheap polyester short sleeved shirt.  His t-shirt

is plainly visible underneath.  On his worn plastic belt is a badge.

As Pendergast enters, D'Agosta looks up at this serious African-

American in simple black suit, white shirt and dark tie.

The two men shake hands.  They couldn't be more different.  Pendergast

is an elegant intellectual... D'Agosta a working class spark plug who

operates from the gut.  Pendergast gestures to the form on the ground.

D'Agosta calls to A POLICE PHOTOGRAPHER who comes down the staircase

carrying lights, a donut stuffed in his mouth.

D'Agosta points to a lump the size of a bowling ball that's in the

corner.

The photographer is finally ready and he floods the dark room with

light.  And now everyone (but not

body.

THE PHOTOGRAPHER... spits out his donut.  His eyes roll up and he drops

in a dead faint.  Just like that.  D'Agosta swallows hard.

Pendergast looks down, utterly impassive.

INT. IMAX ROOM - DAY

An old 19th century theater.  Balconies.  Heavy curtains.  It looks like

the theater where Lincoln was shot, with the exception of the most

recent addition, an IMAX SCREEN five stories high.  The room is filling

with museum employees, all murmuring anxiously.  Margo sits down next

to Frock's wheelchair.  Her face is ashen.

As Greg Kawakita sits in the chair next to Margo...

At this everyone falls silent and IAN CUTHBERT steps forward to

address the crowd.  He appears drawn and grey.

IPPOLITO... rises in the back and nods to the crowd... He's an imperious

looking, pompous man with shifty eyes.  Right now he's defensive.

Overnight, his job is on the line...

Ippolito raises a hand.

Ippolito registers surprise.  The audience buzzes again.

INT. GEM ROOM - DAY

Margo, Dr. Frock and Greg Kawakita enter.  The room is full of

spectacular displays of gemstones of every type.  Greg drapes himself

over a grey sofa.  Margo leans on a giant geode.

They glance over and see Cuthbert in the corner.  He appears ill, is

compulsively fingering his watch chain from which hangs a RABBIT'S

FOOT.  Frock goes over to speak to him, followed by Margo and Greg.

Margo frowns, suddenly uneasy.  She and Dr. Frock exchange a look.

INT. BUSINESS OFFICES - MUSEUM - DAY

D'Agosta has set up a temporary command post among the antique desks

and chairs.  The room is on the ground floor with a view of the park.

Gawkers are outside looking in.  D'Agosta pulls the blinds in their

faces.

Pendergast is looking closely at one of the large paintings of birds

that line the walls.

He bites off the end, spits it out on the floor.

BAILEY enters, interrupts.

INT. MUSEUM CLASSROOM - DAY

A modern classroom that has been taken over by the police for the

purpose of interrogation.  Seated on small chairs at a plain table

are...

HENRY and LARRY, looking like two little boys with a story they are

desperate to share.  Standing behind them is MRS. BEASLEY, starchier

than ever.  D'Agosta takes a chair across from the boys, at their eye

level.  By this time of day he looks pretty rumpled and tired.

Pendergast stands upright and unruffled in a doorway behind.  This

isn't hard duty for D'Agosta.  He's surprisingly genial and at ease

with kids.  Larry kicks his sneaker against the table leg in

excitement.  Henry tugs his t-shirt.

Henry elbows him hard.  Larry shuts up.

Henry makes a low GROWL in his throat.  D'Agosta suppresses a smile,

shoots Pendergast a look.  But Pendergast watches the kids intently.

He goes on hands and knees, sniffs the ground.

Pendergast now moves forward, pulls up a chair as if deeply

interested.

EXT. MUSEUM - DAY

An ambulance pulls away, lights flashing.  Pendergast and D'Agosta walk

to a squad car.

D'Agosta stops, stunned.

INT. NEW YORK CITY MORGUE - EVENING

D'Agosta and Pendergast thread their way down a hall lined with bodies

on gurneys.  It's dark and quiet.  They go into the autopsy room.

INT. AUTOPSY ROOM - AFTERNOON

A large gurney, currently empty, sits like an uninvited guest under

the bright lights of the autopsy suite.  Beside it is a tall, imposing

doctor in her late 50's, with intense eyes.  This is DR. ZIEWZIC.  With

her are the PHOTOGRAPHER seen passing out at the museum, and a young

intern, DOCTOR GROSS.

Dr. Gross wheels the gurney over to the morgue bank and slides open a

drawer.  The shape under the plastic seems too small to be human.  To

the side of it is a large bump, presumably the head.  The two pieces of

cadaver are slid onto the gurney and wheeled under the lights.  A

stainless steel bucket is placed under the gurney's outlet pipe.  Dr.

Ziewzic fiddles with a microphone hanging above the body, she taps it

and it gives off the proper static.

They pull off the sheet and D'AGOSTA swallows hard, closes his eyes to

keep his stomach in check.  The photographer goes green, but is

determined not to clutch this time.  PENDERGAST leans closer, totally

impassive.  He puts on a small pair of wire rim glasses, assumes an

expression much like a man reading a menu in a restaurant.

Ziewzic turns to Pendergast.

Gross passes over a grey, watery mass that sits in a stainless steel

pan.  Ziewzic studies Beauregard's brain, or what's left of it...

Ziewzic, Gross and D'Agosta look at Pendergast.  The photographer is

staring at the wall, silently mouthing multiplication tables to keep

from woofing all over the place.

A long moment of silence, then... Zwiezic uses a swab for the saliva

test, puts the result in a petrie dish.

The photographer gathers his courage, steps forward with D'Agosta and

Pendergast.  Zwiezic rinses the object off in a beaker of sterile

water.  It turns brownish red.  She holds it up.  They all stare in

astonished silence.  D'Agosta swallows.

The photographer's flash goes off.

EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

A black and white heads uptown.

INT. COP CAR - NIGHT

Pendergast sits in silence.  D'Agosta is visibly disturbed.

Pendergast looks over, nods quietly.

EXT. NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM - DUSK

The yellow crime scene tape is torn and flapping in a light rain.  Most

of the emergency vehicles have left.  The police have released the

employees who are now headed home.  We see Frock and Kawakita exit.

Cuthbert isn't far behind.  Pendergast approaches them, headed back

inside.

Pendergast nods his thanks.

INT. MUSEUM HALL OF THE GEMS - NIGHT

The gems glow in the darkness as Pendergast passes through the now

empty room.

INT. METEORITE ROOM - NIGHT

Pendergast's footfalls are lost in the carpet as he goes down the far

stairs.

INT. HALLWAY - MUSEUM - NIGHT

Pendergast goes down a long, dark hall alone.  He arrives at a door

marked PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY LAB, enters.

INT. PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY LAB - NIGHT

The skeletons throw odd shadows on the ceiling.  Margo's computer

screen glows at the end of the room, casting the only light.  But her

chair is empty.  The room is quiet.  Pendergast approaches slowly, looks

around.

No answer.  Pendergast glances at the computer screen, sees graphs and

complicated notations.  He scrolls down, leans closer.  He can't figure

it out.  He slides into Margo's chair, fascinated.  Then...

Pendergast leaps up.  Margo has appeared in the doorway behind him, a

cup of coffee in her hand.

Margo turns to put down her coffee.  She takes a moment to compose

herself.  When she turns back, her voice is quiet.

INT. MUSEUM HALLS - NIGHT

Pendergast and Margo walk together though various exhibits and halls.

They pass dioramas of ferocious wild animals that have been tamed and

stuffed behind glass.

Margo pales.

Margo's voice catches again.  Pendergast reaches for his handkerchief

but she shakes her head, determined to keep control.

INT. SUPERSTITION EXHIBIT - NIGHT

This exhibit is unlike anything we've seen in the museum.  Horrifying

artifacts under single spots appear to float in a velvet blackness.

Patterns of light and shadow play over skeletons and voodoo dolls.

There are tombs, a torture chamber, and endlessly curving, maze-like,

winding halls.

Without further discussion, Margo takes the right fork leaving

Pendergast behind.

ON MARGO...

As she finds herself alone.  The silence is intense.  She heads slowly

into another long, dark, tunnel passing a set of Maori tattooed heads.

The eyes are stuffed with fibers, the shriveled lips are drawn back

from rotting teeth.  Margo passes without a look.

ON PENDERGAST

In another part of the exhibit, he nears a Mayan tomb.  A skeleton in

the center wears a headdress and tribal robes.  Gold rings encircle

bony fingers.  Pendergast takes a moment to appreciate it, heads into

the next hall.

ON MARGO

getting farther from pendergast, and ever deeper into the gloom.  The

walls around her are lined with symbols of witchcraft.  There are

shaman dancers, masks covered in grasses and shells.  From the New

Guinea coast there is Kokpah, God of a secret male society, and Zoe-

ba, an awesome mannequin in black costume with an angry pointed mask.

Finally the walls open up into another gallery.  Beyond it is more of

the shadowy hall.  Margo stops and for the first time she wavers.  This

gallery is the most frightening yet.  It features images of THE DEVIL

from different cultures around the world.

In the dim light, Margo is dwarfed by abhorrent statues of SATAN,

TORNARSUK (the Eskimo evil spirit), INCUBI from India, Tibet, New

Guinea etc.  And there in the center of the gallery sitting on an altar

and lit by a spot, is a small figurine.  Margo is instantly drawn to

it.  As she gets close enough she sees the label in Gothic letters.

The statue is terrifyingly life-like.  Margo stares at The Beast.  Mbwun

is covered in scales and stiff hair, with glittering green eyes and

crude, reptilian features.  The figure is hunched over in a threatening

crouch.  It's long forearms trail to the ground ending in THREE LARGE

CLAWS!

ON MARGO... she starts, then remembers Pendergast.

No answer.  She turns, tries again, louder.

Her voice catches as she stops and sniffs the air.  A STENCH rolls over

her.  She covers her face, backs up, holding her breath.

She steps directly into a nasty statue of the Tibetan lord of the

Dead.  Margo starts, steadies the statue.  The room is silent once more.

But then, unmistakably... she hears it.  An odd rustling sound.  Slow.

Deliberate.  Maddeningly soft on the thick carpet.  And another wave of

THE SMELL.  Margo looks in the direction she came, down the long dark

hall.  Her voice comes out a bit frightened as she calls...

But now she freezes.  At last she's truly scared.  A shadow, black

against black, is gliding stealthily towards her, moving over the

display cases and grinning artifacts!

Margo stands stock still, her eyes on the shadow.  She lets out a small

gasp of shock.  She can't believe her eyes.  It defies reason.  Slowly,

she backs up.  She slips quietly through the exhibit and out the other

side.  In the next room she pauses again, listens... now hearing a

distinctly animal, SNUFFLING SOUND!

Something large is TRACKING HER!  There's no doubt.

Overcome by a blind panic, Margo turns and runs.  She passes through a

display on mythical creatures, disappears down another winding dark

hall.

Behind her comes...

THE POUNDING OF SOMETHING IN A HEAVY, LOPING RUN!  Whatever it is, it's

charging after her!  She turns another corner.  And another, tearing as

fast as she can!  But now the walls up ahead are narrowing, leading to

... a DEAD END!

Margo slams up against a locked door with a window of glass.  The hall

features displays of terrifying totem poles.  All around the ghoulish

carved faces seem to leap out!  She pounds on the door but it's

useless.  She's trapped.  And the thing is coming behind her!  It's just

around the last bend when it stops!  Silence again envelops her.  She's

afraid to turn.  She can hear HEAVY BREATHING, and something like a low

growl!  Reflected in the glass of the door in front of her is the long

dark hall.  Margo starts as a face appears IN THE REFLECTION...

The image is wavering and unclear.  It's a large, hulking form behind

her!  TWO GLOWING SLIT GREEN EYES in the dark!  Margo SCREAMS as the

thing leaps forward, hitting one of the totem poles.  Margo sinks to

the ground, unconscious.  At last we hear Pendergast calling as

darkness falls.

INT. SUPERSTITION EXHIBIT - NIGHT

ON MARGO... lying on the carpet.  There's a large, nasty bump on her

forehead.  The totem pole is on the floor beside her.  Leaning over her

is PENDERGAST.  Margo starts to sit up.  Pendergast gently restrains

her.

Pendergast nods.  As Margo rises he tries to help her but she waves him

off, collecting her thoughts.

Margo turns and points behind her to...

A large NORTHWEST COAST INDIAN MASK.  It's carved out of wood in a

horrible grimace, inset with two glowing green eyes.  Pendergast sees

it too, says nothing.

She leans against the wall, touches her forehead, panic overcoming her

again.

EXT. ROTUNDA FRONT ENTRY - EXHIBIT - NIGHT

THREE COPS including MCNITT, RODRIGUEZ and ROGERS prepare to enter the

exhibit.  All are armed.  Margo watches as Pendergast gives them

instruction.  She appears rattled and confused.

He points to DOYLE, an older red-haired cop who takes up a post

outside the exhibit.  Pendergast hands Doyle his walkie talkie.

Doyle nods.  Pendergast and Margo walk out.

EXT. MUSEUM - NIGHT

Margo and Pendergast exit.  The cold air is like a slap in the face.

EXT. MUSEUM - NIGHT

All is quiet.

INT. MUSEUM FRONT - EXHIBIT FRONT DOOR - NIGHT

The doors to the exhibit are closed.  Doyle looks at his watch,

impatient.  It's almost eleven now.  He pulls out his walkie talkie.

Doyle shuts off his walkie talkie, frowns.  He fidgets, looks at his

watch once more.

He turns, takes off the walkie talkie and leaves it, but then he hears

something, stops.  It's a low SCUFFLING from inside the exhibit, coming

from behind the closed doors.  Doyle freezes, turns.

No answer.  Doyle pauses.  His hand goes to his gun for reassurance as

he hears a footstep and a muffled thump.  He moves to the door of the

exhibit, opens it and takes a step inside.

Silence meets him.  The shadows of the exhibit loom.  Doyle takes one

more step inside, scanning the darkness with his gun.  Does he hear

BREATHING?  He freezes.  Yes, he does.  The hair on his neck rises and he

loses the spit in his mouth.  He takes a step backwards, but he's half

a second too late.  The door SLAMS BEHIND HIM and a HUGE DARK FORM

LEAPS OUT!

INT. EXHIBIT ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Officer MCNITT enters from a side corridor, zipping up his fly.  The

hall is still.  McNitt checks his watch, sees Doyle's walkie talkie and

turns it on.

McNitt shuts off the walkie talkie, settles at his post.

INT. SUPERSTITION EXHIBIT - NIGHT

In the blackness a large shape is MOVING QUIETLY, dragging it's prey

across the floor.  We move in on the lifeless form of DOYLE.  His face

is rigid with terror, his eyes frozen, open wide.  The last thing we

hear as the hulking form heads back into the darkness, is the SNAPPING

of Doyle's skull.

EXT. MUSEUM - DAY

Signs announce that the Superstition Exhibit opens tonight.  The museum

is back in business, but not many people are going in.  A crowd lingers

at the margins, pointing at the building.  Several hold a copy of the

POST with a graphic photo of the bloody floor by the circular stair.

INT. CUTHBERT'S OFFICE - DAY

Cuthbert stands by the window of his palatial office, looking out at

the scene below.  His face is pinched with worry.  Slumped in a chair is

Lieutenant D'Agosta.  Pendergast surveys some paintings on the wall.

Cuthbert looks grim.

INT. PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY LAB - DAY

D'Agosta examines the huge centrifuges, autoclaves, electrophoresis

apparati, monitors, computers etc.  as Margo and Greg Kawakita look at

the claw.

He hands them a computer read-out.  Margo checks it quickly as Kawakita

looks on.

Margo pulls off her glasses.

INT. MUSEUM HALLWAY AREA - DAY

Pendergast, D'Agosta and Dr. Frock get off are in an older, plain

corridor with a long row of locked heavy steel doors.  The doors are

numbered up to eight, then the corridor turns.

As the three go forward, the creaking of the wheelchair echoes faintly

in the hall.

Frock heads through a double door that leads to a FREIGHT ELEVATOR

that's as big as a small room.  The operator, KARL has it decorated

with a table, chair, and PICTURES.

The doors creak closed.  They are now inside...

INT. FREIGHT ELEVATOR - DAY

Headed down.  D'Agosta chews on a toothpick, stares at Karl's home-made

picture show.  The photos have all been cut from nature magazines.  They

are of ANIMALS MATING in extreme positions and undreamed of ways.

D'Agosta turns to Pendergast, dead pan.

Karl, who is sixty and wears a red toupee, leers.

Finally the doors open and they exit to a hail, enter another set of

doors.  Now they are in

INT. OSTEOLOGICAL PREPARATION AREA - DAY

It looks more like a bizarre industrial kitchen than anything else.

Deep stainless steel tanks line one wall.  On the ceiling near the

tanks hang massive pulleys and grappling hooks for the larger

carcasses.  In a far corner of the workshop is a stainless-steel gurney

bearing a DEAD GORILLA.  A pink faced eighty year old man is working on

the carcass with sharp tools.  This is DON OSTERBAAN.

Frock looks into a large maceration tank with Pendergast and D'Agosta.

A zebra carcass can be seen under the muddy surface, its flesh and

soft tissues falling off.

Frock now opens the door on a humid closet adjacent to the main room.

Inside on a stainless steel table lies the corpse of a fox.  It's

crawling with BLACK BEETLES which are devouring it.  D'Agosta and

Pendergast watch the grizzly scene, properly impressed.

As Don casually peels back the gorilla's whole face exposing the

skull...

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

More rows of stainless steel doors under hissing steam pipes.  The

light is dim here, and several bulbs are burned out.  But the numbers

on the storage rooms are much higher now.  The three men come out of

the darkness.  Frock rounds a last corner and wheels to a stop.

Pendergast reaches up above them and TAPS THE LIGHT BULB.  It comes on

and they all see the heavy steel door of the storage area.  D'Agosta's

jaw drops and his toothpick falls out.  The door has been scored from

top to bottom by long, vicious, CLAWS!

Frock stares in amazement, shaken.  He runs a finger down the deep

ruts.

Pendergast takes Frock's keys and opens the door.  It swings wide on

oiled hinges.  D'Agosta turns on a light.

INT. STORAGE ROOM - NIGHT

They all enter.  Nothing has been disturbed.  The crates sit in the

middle of the small room, untouched.  Pendergast kneels by the only one

that's been opened.

Pendergast removes the lid and hands it to D'Agosta, pulls out a BLOW

DART GUN, SEED PODS, a CARVED STONE.  D'Agosta takes the lid and turns

it.

As D'Agosta studies the lid, a brittle, water damaged envelope slips

out.  D'Agosta picks it up.  The envelope bears an imprint of

D'Agosta hands the letter to Frock.

Frock stops, looks up at D'Agosta and Pendergast.  His face flushes

with the thrill.

Pendergast looks out to the dark corridors.

D'Agosta and Pendergast exchange a look.

EXT. MUSEUM SIDE DOOR - DAY

A series of boxes labeled "PROFESSOR FROCK" sit on the loading dock.  A

small moving van, partially loaded with the contents of Frock's

office, sits waiting.  Frock delves through one of the boxes while

Pendergast and D'Agosta look on.

Frock continues to unload boxes, scattering things right and left.

It's the most amazing assortment of paraphernalia.  A collection of

wildflowers, soil samples, a stuffed owl.  Finally he pulls out some

very old blueprints and flashes a triumphant smile.

INT. HALL OF THE AFRICAN MAMMALS - DAY

Visitors scatter as Pendergast enters with D'Agosta, TWO DEPUTIES, a

dog handler, JONATHAN HAMM and Jonathan's pair of HUGE BLOODHOUNDS.

The deputies are armed with large shotguns.  Pendergast scans the

blueprints as they walk.

INT. MUSEUM - STAIRCASE - DAY

Pendergast, Jonathan, his dogs and the deputies make their way down an

industrial set of stairs into the basement.

INT. BASEMENT CORRIDOR - DAY

In a moment they arrive at the site of Beauregard's murder.  The area

at the bottom of the spiral stairway is still littered with chalk,

crime tape, spray paint and the remains of scores of people tramping

in and out.

They move carefully down the dark corridor which we remember from the

time we last saw it with Henry and Larry.  Unknown to Jonathan or

Pendergast, the dogs are walking directly towards the spot where the

boys faced the monster.

The dogs start barking in animation, sniffing the wall.  Pendergast

studies the blueprints with a flashlight, moves to the spot.  There's

nothing to be seen.  He shines his flashlight over the water-stained,

uneven stucco between two steel beams.  The dogs sniff furiously at the

point where the wall meets the floor.  Pendergast moves his fingers to

the joint between the stucco and the beam, shoves hard.  The wall

pushes back.  It's a door!

INT. STAIRWELL - SUB-BASEMENT - DAY

They enter a dank stairwell with brick stairs.  Water drips on the

walls.

Jonathan looks uneasy, double wraps the dogs' leashes around his

black-gloved hands.  The two deputies remove their 12 gauges from their

shoulders.  Then they all follow the animals, descend down the inky

stairwell.

INT. SECURITY COMMAND CENTER - MUSEUM - DAY

The place looks like the control room of a nuclear power plant.  Two

SECURITY GUARDS monitor a battery of closed-circuit screens.  D'Agosta

is now accompanied by the pompous head of security, IPPOLITO.  Clearly

Ippolito feels D'Agosta is pissing on his territory and he's trying to

assert control.

INT. PHYSICAL ANTHRO LAB - DAY

Margo, Kawakita and Frock are studying the contents of the crate.

Frock opens the plant press and sees a specimen inside.

Kawakita lifts out a bit of the fibers, as does Frock.

Kawakita TAKES a NIBBLE.

Kawakita rises and exits with some of the plant.

Frock takes a moment to study them, looks up.

INT. SUB-BASEMENT - DAY

Black as night.  The only light comes from the men's flashlights.

They're at a crossroads.  Crooked corridors, with arched ceilings

barely the height of a man stretch in several directions.  Jonathan is

crouched down, resting with the panting dogs.  The deputies are having

a smoke.  They all look both uneasy and exhausted except for

Pendergast.  He stares at the blueprints.

The men reluctantly shoulder their shotguns and push on.  The hounds

walk ahead, carelessly nosing the ground.  The flashlight beams

illuminate lime-encrusted, cave-like walls.

At this the dogs begin to WHINE.  The HAIR on their backs rises in a

ridge.  Pendergast turns as a BREEZE stirs his clothes.

The dogs strain and pull forward, sniffing the air ahead.  The deputies

raise up their shotguns as they all move deeper into the darkness.  The

flashlight beams streak crazily in all directions, barely penetrating

the gloom.  Suddenly the dogs break into a terrifying BAYING which

bounces off the walls.

The dogs drag Jonathan forward, paying no attention, foaming at the

mouth.  Jonathan is now frightened.

Too late.  As Jonathan tries to grab the collars, one of the dogs LEAPS

forward, and the leash slips through Jonathan's hands.

Argo BOLTS into the darkness.  The men start after the dog, following

the frantic barking which echoes farther and farther in the distance.

Pendergast is in the lead.  Suddenly he throws out his arms, halts.

A goatish odor envelops them all.

A SCUFFLING sound of claws dragging on brick is heard followed by a

ROAR.  The men all freeze.  The other dog leaps and twists with

excitement.  In the confusion it also breaks free!  It tears after the

first dog, disappearing into the darkness.  Now Jonathan is wild-eyed.

The deputies are terrified, retreat.  The darkness is stifling,

claustrophobic.  The flashlights are small help.  Pendergast alone

remains dead calm.  His voice is cool and commanding.

The deputies regain control and follow Pendergast's orders.  They fall

into position, pump their shotguns and aim them down the hall.  In the

echoing darkness ahead of them, the barking falters and stops.

There is a moment of silence, then a terrible, unearthly SHRIEK.  The

deputies quail, frozen in their tracks.  Jonathan leaps forward.

At that moment a SHAPE hurtles at them from the darkness!  The men YELL

in terror.  There are two stunning BLASTS from the shotguns, two

FLASHES of light accompanied by a deafening roar.  The rumble echoes

and dies and there's an intense silence, followed by a sob.

Hobbes lies five feet from them, a black shadow of death.  Jonathan

kneels by the dog, tears in his eyes.  Down the animals side is a GASH.

In the distance they can hear a terrified howl.  It's the second dog,

hurt or frightened.  It's a pitiful sound.

Pendergast grabs at Jonathan who slips from his grasp.  Jonathan inches

back down the hallway calling desperately.

Jonathan shakes his head no.

But the two deputies are terrified.  They cling to the wall, inching

backwards, sheer horror in their eyes.

Jonathan is disappearing in front of them.  Pendergast has no choice.

Grim faced, he pulls his Colt .45 Anaconda from a shoulder harness.

It's a narrow and evil-looking gun.  From a pocket comes a handful of

255 grain wadcutter and 147 grain FMJ flatnose ammunition.  He loads

up, goes after Jonathan, who's no longer in sight.  Pendergast passes

down a long, sloping hallway into cavernous blackness ahead.  At the

bottom Pendergast stops.  He has to stoop down as he goes through an

archway and into...

A VAST ARCHING ROOM...

A dark stream of water runs between concrete walls with tunnels going

off from all sides.  It appears to be part of the sewer system.  The dog

cowers in a corner.  Jonathan moves to his side.

Pendergast calls back down the tunnel for the deputies.

The words go unanswered.  From the hall comes a loud REPORT.  It's the

shotguns, blasting desperately.  Something flies up all around them as

the sound echoes.  BATS!

Pendergast and Jonathan shield themselves from the flurry of beating

wings.  Finally the animals settle and Pendergast and Jonathan exchange

a look.  The silence is filled by a soft RUMBLING SOUND.  They stand

together, waiting.  Pendergast points his gun at the hall leading back

to the deputies.  A ridge of hair on the dog's back rises and it

growls.

No answer.  The rumbling continues, growing louder.  Then a dark object

appears.  It comes rolling out of the hallway, bounces in front of them

and stops.  Pendergast shines his light on...

DEPUTY ONE'S HEAD!  The mouth is open wide in terror.  Across the cheek

is a vicious claw mark.

And now they hear a GUT WRENCHING SHRIEK that's abruptly cut off,

followed by a second rumbling sound!  Jonathan grabs Pendergast by the

shirt, panicked.

They head quietly for the exit at the other end of room which seems to

slope up.  After they're gone a few moments the head of DEPUTY TWO

rolls to a stop.

EXT. MUSEUM - NIGHT

Cabs and limousines tangle outside the west entrance.  A huge rotating

SPOTLIGHT is now turned on.  Elegantly dressed men in dinner jackets

and women in gowns rush to get out of the pelting rain, umbrellas

jousting.

INT. CUTHBERT'S OFFICE - EVENING

Cuthbert's putting on his tux.  He adjusts the cummerbund, humming

happily as D'Agosta looks on.  D'Agosta paces, highly agitated and

worried.

INT. GREAT ROTUNDA - NIGHT

Resounding with the echoes of several hundred expensive shoes crossing

the marble expanse and heading down the rows of palm trees leading to

the Hall of Heavens.  The palms themselves are festooned with orchids

and violet lights.  Somewhere inside, an invisible band is playing "New

York, New York".  An army of waiters in white tie thread their way

through the guests carrying large silver platters crowded with

champagne glasses.  Cuthbert enters and crosses to meet The MAYOR and

THE MAYOR'S WIFE.  Photographers step forward and flashbulbs pop.

INT. HALL OF THE HEAVENS - NIGHT

Food is out.  Hundreds of tables are set with black linen table cloths.

Decorations have a dark, haunted house theme.  A hum of activity floats

up past the vast Corinthian columns into the circular dome above.

INT. MARGO'S LABORATORIES - NIGHT

An explosive sneeze rattles the beakers and dislodges the plant

specimens.  Margo interrupts her work at the computer to hand Greg a

tissue as Frock looks on.

Frock has no answer.  Greg gestures to his computer screen.

Kawakita pulls a heavy book from the shelf.  The Encyclopedia of

Biochemistry, thumbs to a page and reads.

The tension is rising in the room.  Frock takes the book, looks this

one up, reads silently and removes his glasses.

Kawakita and Frock look puzzled.  Margo rises in agitation.

There's a moment of stunned silence.  Then a LOUD BUZZER makes them all

jump.

INT. MUSEUM HALLWAYS - NIGHT

Kawakita tears up the dark stairs.  He turns a corner and something

JUMPS OUT at him.  He almost screams.  It's a DRUNK.

INT. MARGO'S LAB - NIGHT

Margo and Frock enter and huddle over a sheaf of papers that the

printer has spit out.

Margo and Frock exchange a look.  Holy shit.  Margo swallows and keeps

reading.

INT. ENTRANCE TO SUPERSTITION EXHIBIT - ROTUNDA - NIGHT

The crowd is now packed into the rotunda as the MAYOR cuts a red

ribbon across the entrance to the exhibit and everyone applauds.

Cuthbert is by the mayor's side.  He steps forward and raises his hand

for quiet.  The crowd falls silent.

The Mayor takes a bow.  More applause.

Everyone laughs, applauds again as Cuthbert and the Mayor lead the way

inside.  Kawakita is making his way over to D'Agosta.  The crush at the

entrance is incredible.

D'Agosta pulls out his walkie talkie.

INT. SECURITY COMMAND CENTER - MUSEUM - NIGHT

Officer McNitt stands in the corner of the computer room, bathed in

neon light.  Running the security system is GEORGE, your basic computer

nerd.  Multiple screens all over show various rooms in the museum.  Most

are empty with the exception of those showing the exhibition.  On

these, the crowds can be seen entering the various rooms.  McNitt holds

his walkie talkie.

At this moment a NOISE comes from the adjoining room.  McNitt's head

SWIVELS.  It's a LOUD THUMP.

George is playing an elaborate computer game and not paying attention.

McNitt returns to his walkie talkie as the THUMP comes again.  Now he

looks distinctly nervous.

George rises.

McNitt watches uneasily as George opens the door, disappears into the

next room.

INT. ENTRANCE - SUPERSTITION EXIBIT - NIGHT

D'Agosta turns to Kawakita who waits, shifting from foot to foot.

D'Agosta heads into the exhibit before Kawakita can protest.

INT. SUPERSTITION EXHIBIT - NIGHT

We see various cuts of people as they move into the different rooms.  A

TEENAGE GIRL (LAUREN) and her FATHER (DAVID) examine a lidless,

rotting European style coffin, complete with corpse.  A white haired

gentleman (DR. POUND), leans on his cane as he looks at a display on

primitive medicine practiced with implements that look like torture

tools.

Cuthbert and Ippolito are at the head of a press of people, giving the

MAYOR and HIS WIFE a guided tour.

Cuthbert laughs right on cue.  They pass a Congo power figure with its

bulging eye sockets and torso riddled with sharp nails.  Several people

recoil from it, looking repulsed.  The MAYOR's WIFE sees it and looks

distressed.

They pass a MUMMY dripping in BLOOD.  The Mayor gestures to it.

Cuthbert's smile fades as he sees the mummy.

CLOSE ON... the MAYOR'S WHITE CUFF as he extends his hand to point at

the mummy.  The pristine white of his cuff is suddenly colored by a

falling RED DROP OF BLOOD.

Cuthbert sees it.  So does the Mayor and Ippolito.  They look up as

another DROP OF BLOOD falls right on Cuthbert's face.  And yet another

droplet falls on THE MAYOR'S WIFE'S white bosom, exposed by her low

cut dress!

THEIR POV... above the mummy's head, the top of the case is cut away,

exposing a ceiling crawling with steam pipes and ductwork.  A hand, a

watch, and the cuff of a blue shirt protrude over the edge of the

case.  A small icicle of blood hangs from the middle finger.  And

another drop FALLS.

CUTHBERT SCREAMS AT THE TOP OF HIS LUNGS!  Conscious of the panic

factor, Ippolito yells.

But it's too late.  The room is packed with people.  And D'Agosta

himself is just pushing through the door as another woman cries out...

A ripple of fear goes over the faces in the room, titters as people

wonder if it's a joke.  At that moment from the darkness above, the

ceiling buckles and something FALLS!

It's OFFICER DOYLE'S HEADLESS TORSO, dripping blood!

UTTER PANDEMONIUM breaks loose!  The close space ECHOES with screams

and shouts.  People claw at each other, stumbling desperately trying to

get to the door.  A YOUNG WOMAN falls and D'Agosta runs to her to keep

her from being trampled in the stampede.

INT. COMPUTER ROOM - NIGHT

McNitt is staring in horror at the remote camera images showing the

chaos in the exhibition, the faces registering blind fear.  Alarms

start going off all over the place.  McNitt calls out... panicked...

McNitt looks around, desperate.  But George still isn't here.  The door

to the electrical room is still open.  The ceiling shudders from

thundering feet.  McNitt can hear distant SCREAMS!  It's raising the

hair on the back of his neck.  He calls out.

No answer.  He moves to the open door, a new fear in his eyes.  He looks

inside.

INT. ELECTRICAL ROOM - NIGHT

BLACKNESS.  McNitt can't find a light switch.  He stays in the doorway,

silhouetted by light from the computer room.  With shaking hands McNitt

pumps a slug into the chamber of his shotgun.  There's a strange, low,

gurgling sound.  It's McNitt's stomach.  He silences it, swallows.

McNitt edges into the darkened rooms.  The first one's empty.  He tries

the next.

Suddenly there's a HUGE THUMP and a scuttling to his left!  It's a

terrifying sound!  McNitt drops to his knees and pumps three rounds,

each with a light and a deafening blast!  A SHOWER OF SPARKS and a gout

of flame licks upwards, illuminating the room with orange light.  A

HUGE DARK SHAPE ducks out the door!

Gunpowder hangs in the air like a blue fog.  On the far wall, a mounted

metal box is smoking from three large, ragged holes!  With a sudden

pop, an electrical arc slices across the ruined box, followed by a

crackling and a shower of sparks.  McNitt ducks back into the computer

room, slams the door and locks it, breathing hard.

INT. COMPUTER ROOM - NIGHT

Every single screen flickers and dims.  But to McNitt's relief, George

has returned.  He is sitting with his back to the doorway in his chair.

George remains still, his back to McNitt, staring at the computer game

on the flickering screen.

McNitt puts a hand on George's shoulder, swivels his chair around.

ON GEORGE... His face ripped off.

INT. ELECTRICAL ROOM - NIGHT

ON THE CENTRAL SWITCHING BOX... sparking and shorting as an ENORMOUS

CLAWED ARM SWIPES IT OFF THE WALL!

INT. HALL OF THE HEAVENS - NIGHT

Everyone pours out of the exhibit, running for the door leading to the

Rotunda.  People are getting trampled.  It's a terrible crush.  Screams!

Tables over-turned everywhere.  Food scatters to the floor.  D'AGOSTA

pushes his way out of the exhibit, crosses to Kawakita, who is

appalled.  Above, the chandeliers are flickering.

Ippolito runs over to join them.

Above them THE LIGHTS dim again and come back on.

At this there's a low rumble from above.  D'Agosta looks up and sees A

LARGE METAL DOOR IS DESCENDING from a slot in the ceiling, and not in

an orderly fashion.  It's falling fast.  Below are crowds of people, all

pushing to get out!  Officer Bailey, near the door, sees it.

His voice is lost in an ocean of screaming.  Kawakita stands in total

horror a moment, then joins Bailey and D'Agosta.

All of them try to restrain people from trying to beat the door.

Ippolito, on the other hand, elbows his way to the front of the

fleeing crowd!

Ignoring D'Agosta, Ippolito pushes past.  He barrels over an OLD MAN

who stumbles and falls DIRECTLY BENEATH THE FALLING DOOR!  Ippolito

jumps over him and is out!

The old man looks up at the descending wall of steel and SCREAMS!

D'AGOSTA runs forward, dives for the old man but he's not in time.

Kawakita covers his eyes, unable to watch as the lights flicker a

third and last time.  The room is plunged into darkness.  And over the

screams we hear the rumble and CRASH, the horrifying cries of the old

man, as the door comes down.

INT. MARGO'S LAB - NIGHT

Margo and Frock stand in the darkness.  Through a high window we can

see lightning flash.

She gets one from a cupboard.

INT. HALLWAYS - NIGHT

Frock wheels his chair as fast as he can.  Margo runs beside him

carrying the crate with the fibers inside.  A peel of thunder ends and

distant screaming is heard.  Margo stops, appalled.

Up ahead they hear METALLIC RUMBLING and a CRASH!  They round a corner

and come up against a huge STEEL DOOR.

INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT

Pendergast stands at the end of a cul de sac, studying the blue prints

by a stone wall.  Jonathan and the dog are with him, exhausted and

terrified.  Jonathan keeps an eye on the corridor behind them as

Pendergast works.

Taking a pen knife from his pocket, Pendergast places it into the

plaster and gently twists the blade.  A piece of plaster the size of a

dinner plate falls, revealing the tracings of another doorway.

Pendergast shoves the door open to reveal a dark, dusty room.

INT. "ALCOHOLIC" ROOM - NIGHT

Jonathan and Pendergast enter quickly from the hidden rear door.

Pendergast shines his beam on dusty shelves filled with specimens.  All

are stored in jars of alcohol.  There are fetuses of many different

species.  We see a pig, a cow, a duck billed platypus as well as brain

sections, a disembodied monkey head.  One rectangular glass container

holds a skinned human foot.

Pendergast tries the light switch to no effect.

They cross the room to the main door and exit.  Now they're in...

INT. OSTEO PREP - LAB - NIGHT

Pendergast shines his light on the maceration tanks.  The humming of

the bugs can be heard in their cabinet.

With these words, the dog GROWLS.  Jonathan freezes and sniffs the air.

Jonathan kneels by Hobbes as Pendergast listens, every nerve on end.  A

sound comes from the adjacent hallway that leads to the secure storage

area.  It's unmistakable HEAVY BREATHING and the creeping movement of

claws.  Pendergast lifts his gun.

Jonathan doesn't have to be told twice.  He takes the dog and exits

from the other side of the lab leaving Pendergast alone.  Pendergast

waits a moment until Jonathan's safely out of sight.  He switches off

his flashlight, backs up slowly, step by step.  He opens the door to

the alcoholics storage.  As he slips inside a DARK SHAPE appears.

INT. "ALCOHOLICS" STORAGE - NIGHT

Slowly, making no sound, Pendergast lifts the .45 Anaconda, passes his

finger over the cylinder, checking the loaded chambers.  Then he

steadies the revolver and levels it at the door.  The hideous pickled

specimens seem to hover all around him.  The smell is overwhelming and

the snuffling is louder now.

It's coming closer.  After a long moment there is a faint bump at the

door.  This is followed by a low scratching noise... Pendergast watches

frozen in horror, holding his breath.

THE DOORKNOB BEGINS TO TURN!  Not knowing what else to do, Pendergast

simply grabs it from the inside and holds on!

OUTSIDE he hears an AMUSED SNORT, then a LOW GROWL.  There's ONE HARD

HIT and the door shivers.  THE DOORKNOB FALLS OFF!  It's over now.

Pendergast kneels down, bracing the gun in both hands.  From this

position he can see right through the hole where the doorknob fell.

His mouth literally drops in astonishment as he sees...

a HUGE, red-rimmed, GREEN EYE!

Involuntarily Pendergast LEAPS BACK, nearly falls and drops the gun!

Beakers crash around him.  He scrambles in the darkness.  The flashlight

falls and pops back on.  The beam streaks up crazily.  It's chaos.

Pendergast is an easy target now.  He grabs for the light, the gun,

steadies himself, breathing fast and low.  His heart pounds.  But

nothing more happens.  The silence is heavy.  The eye is gone.  And

suddenly Pendergast understands.

In the distance he can hear HUMAN VOICES and a rolling wheelchair!

Somewhere nearby are MARGO AND FROCK!  The monster has left him to get

bigger game.  Fear for Margo and Frock lights Pendergast's eyes.  All

panic and disorganization are gone.  He holds his revolver at 12

o'clock and KICKS the door open, leaps out as

A HUGE DARK SHAPE DARTS FROM THE ROOM.  It's headed for the secure

storage areas again!  Pendergast takes off.  Not knowing how else to

address this thing he finds himself calling...

INT. SECURE STORAGE HALLWAY - BASEMENT - NIGHT

Pendergast runs into the hallway but he's already too late.  The

hulking shape of the quadruped is moving at incredible speed.

ON PENDERGAST... as he levels his gun and shoots.

THE CREATURE... stops, rears back on its haunches, looks once at

Pendergast, pissed.  As the VOICES around the far corner fall silent,

Pendergast FIRES.  The shot blasts off a piece of the wall.

With astonishing speed and agility for its bulk, the beast turns and

leaps around the corner, passing out of Pendergast's sight.

AROUND THE CORNER...

Are MARGO AND FROCK... Frock holds the keys to secure storage area 1012

in his hand.  Margo has the flashlight and the crate with the fibers.

They can hear the sound of thundering movement.

Margo points her light in the distance and illuminates the beast!  It's

descending like a freight train.  One split second of sheer amazement,

then...

Frock, immobilized in his wheel chair, stares at the monster, like a

trapped rabbit looking at a descending hawk.  Margo grabs his keys from

him, fumbles desperately to open the door.  It swings wide at last.  She

grabs the handles of the wheelchair, tugs with all her might.  The

wheels bump into the door frame but somehow she wrestles the damn

thing inside.

INT. SECURE STORAGE AREA - NIGHT

Margo shoves Frock behind her, slams the door shut.  Seconds later, the

beast throws itself against the storage door.  They hear it outside,

growling in fury, claws lashing out.  Margo and Frock press back in the

darkness, terror in their eyes.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Pendergast runs forward in the echoing hallway, his gun drawn, his

flashlight on.  A few more steps and he holds hard.  His eyes go wide in

astonishment as his light illuminates the beast.  It's tearing at the

steel door furiously with incredible force.

As the flashlight beam hits it, MBWUN roars and looks up.  Now we see

it clearly for the first time.  The monster is MASSIVE, putrid, rank.

Slit reptilian green eyes are rimmed in red.  A ridge of stiff black

hair rises on the creature's buffalo-like humped back.  The withers are

muscled and covered with plates.  A forked TONGUE licks out as purple

lips draw back exposing razor sharp teeth.  The claws raise up to fend

off the light.

PENDERGAST steadies himself with difficulty, takes a few seconds to

aim with the greatest care.  Mbwun makes a move towards him and he

squeezes the trigger hard.  The gun echoes in the hall.  A split second

and a white streak moves right up the beast's cranium.  A direct hit.

The shot echoes and Mbwun drops it's claws.

The flashlight continues to shine like a high beam right into the

beast's eyes.  Angry and blinded, the creature turns and in a moment,

lopes off.  Pendergast watches, unimaginably relieved.  Realizing what

just happened, his knees start to buckle.  He catches himself, wipes

one hand across his eyes.  A voice comes from the storage room.

The storage door opens slowly and Margo looks out.

EXT. MUSEUM - NIGHT

As hundreds of the guests emerge into the pounding rain... crying,

terrified, unclear what exactly happened.  These are the lucky ones.

Among them we find IPPOLITO.  His walkie talkie is squawking.  The

windows of the museum behind him are black.

Ippolito sits down on the steps in the rain, knowing the extent of

what he's done.  The wheels are working hard now, trying to figure out

damage control.  The walkie talkie keeps calling.  He doesn't respond.

INT. HALL OF THE HEAVENS - NIGHT

Tables are overturned, food lies on the ground, people cower in the

darkness.  D'Agosta crouches in some broken glass with his walkie

talkie.  He shuts it off, rises, looks around.  Light comes from a few

sputtering candles.

Most of the guests still trapped inside are grouped around the lowered

steel door.  Among them are KAWAKITA and CUTHBERT.  From the BODY of the

man crushed underneath the door extends a large puddle of blood.

Bailey is working in desperation on a brass panel by the door.

Frank, the father of the teenage girl, Lauren, steps forward.

The crowd starts to murmur.  One man yells.

The MAYOR stands.  His wife's forehead is bleeding.

The distinguished grey haired man with a cane comes forward.  DR.

POUND.

Pound moves off.  Everyone spins now at the incongruous sound of a DOG

BARK.  D'Agosta pulls his gun.  The door to a stairwell at the far end

of the room opens and Hobbes bounds into the hall!  He's followed by

Jonathan, who is filthy and wild-eyed.

D'Agosta makes a quick sweep of the room with his flashlight.  The

remote corners of the hall are so black the light seems to disappear.

In the center, two men are bending over a still form.  One of them is

Dr. Pound.

The urgency in D'Agosta's voice gets everyone's attention.  The Mayor

brings his wife over.  Cuthbert comes too.  They huddle apart from the

others.  Cuthbert's white with fear.

D'Agosta speaks low.

Frank steps forward.

D'Agosta gives Frank his service revolver.

The remaining crowd begins to whimper.  The Mayor rises.

Bailey and D'Agosta carry shot guns.  They quietly move to the back

stairwell at the far end of the Hall of the Heavens.  Everyone else

bunches together and watches.

Jonathan gives Hobbes' leash to the Mayor.  D'Agosta hands Greg

Kawakita a shotgun, tightens his grip on his own.  Then he gives the

signal and Bailey yanks open the door to the stairwell.

INT. STAIRWELL - NIGHT

D'Agosta and Bailey go in slowly.  Jonathan stays in the doorway,

sweeping the stairwell with his flashlight.  Kawakita gingerly holds

his shotgun.  He's scared out of his mind.  He turns to Jonathan,

whispers.

D'Agosta heads down the stairs in the lead, with Bailey close behind.

The stairwell is windowless and dark.  D'Agosta shines his light and it

cuts into the blackness.  He moves quietly, makes the first landing and

stops.  Bailey watches his back from several steps behind as D'Agosta

signals for him to wait.  The flashlight flares into a glass door one

flight down.  D'Agosta raises his hand.

Everyone stops.  Bailey pumps his shotgun.  So does Jonathan.  Kawakita

fumbles to do like the others.  They wait.  D'Agosta moves alone down

several more steps.  The silence is heavy.  Suddenly D'Agosta wrinkles

his nose.

Too late.  At this something DROPS FROM ABOVE!  A huge dark shape LEAPS

INTO THE STAIRWELL, descending two floors!  It lands, pounces on BAILEY

and the marble walls echo with a ROAR.

Bailey SCREAMS in terror as Mbwun pins him down!

CLOSE ON BAILEY... Three claws close on his neck and WRENCH HARD!

There's a horrifying snap as Bailey's HEAD COMES OFF!  Blood SPURTS all

over and drips down the stairs.

D'AGOSTA levels his shotgun at the monster and fires, with no apparent

effect.  When the shots stop echoing we hear SCREAMS and FRANTIC

BARKING from the hall.

MBWUN'S GREEN EYES look up and it's FORKED TONGUE LICKS OUT.  The

monster LEAPS PAST Bailey's body and heads for the door!  D'Agosta,

seeing what's happening, screams at the top of his lungs.

ON JONATHAN... frozen in the doorway, Kawakita by his side.  Both of

them are rigid with horror.  Disbelief in their eyes.  The BEAST leaps

up directly at them as they jump to try and close the door.

D'Agosta keeps firing until he's pumping an empty chamber.  Plaster is

falling all around.  SCREAMS resound in the Hall of the Heavens as

D'Agosta stumbles up the stairs.

INT. HALL OF THE HEAVENS - NIGHT

D'Agosta throws open the doors and charges into the Hall.  Jonathan

lies on the ground, dazed.  Kawakita stands to one side, teeth

chattering in shock.  His hand shakes so badly that the barrel of the

gun swings in his hand.

D'Agosta pumps two shells in the shotgun.  Screams can be heard from

the people crouched together at the edge of the room.  Hobbes is

barking wildly, foaming at the mouth.  It's too dark to see what's

happening.

D'Agosta sweeps his light to the Mayor who stands rigid in front of

the others, points to his left.  The light moves to the far end of the

room where THE DARK SHAPE OF MBWUN crouches over the body of a man.

It's lunging up and down with odd, jerking motions.  The man is long

past making a sound.  From the monster comes a faint crunching and

slobbering.  Jonathan rises, comes to D'Agosta.  So does Frank.  They

stand shoulder to shoulder, raise their guns.  D'Agosta motions for

Kawakita.

Kawakita stumbles to join them, tries to join in.  The barrel of his

shot gun still swings wildly.  He steadies it by taking it in both

hands.

All three fire.  There's a loud report.  The kickback knocks Kawakita

backwards.  Screams erupt from the huddled group.  Hobbes abruptly shuts

up.  The men fire and fire until there's nothing left.  D'Agosta reaches

for more shells, comes up empty.

Jonathan moves.  D'Agosta sweeps his light across the room but already

the shape is gone.  Cuthbert hides behind the Mayor, calls out in a

terrified squeal.

D'Agosta runs across the room to a set of double industrial doors.

There's a noise in the darkness beyond and he just manages to slam

both doors.  He picks up a metal chair and jams it through the handles.

Backs up.  The doors shudder as something hits them hard.

Jonathan, the Mayor, Cuthbert and Kawakita together herd everyone

towards the stairwell.  They move inside.

INT. STAIRWELL - NIGHT

Dark and close.  The smell of gunpowder and death.  The Mayor's Wife

sees Bailey's body and clutches her mouth so as not to throw up.

No one follows.

Cuthbert's gone.

Jonathan grabs Hobbes' leash from the Mayor and bounds up the stairs.

Everyone else follows D'Agosta.  Together, they head down.

EXT. MUSEUM - NIGHT

Police cars are pulling up outside the museum.  Sirens wail.  Torrents

of rain limit the number of onlookers.  Crowds of people are scattered

about.  There's disbelief on everyone's faces.  Many people are in

shock.  Ippolito sprints through the pelting rain to a GUARD STATION

near the gate.  He yanks the door open and jumps inside.

INT. GUARD STATION - NIGHT

A number of museum security personnel are milling in confusion.

One of the security men, WATERS, rises.

Ippolito pulls out his walkie talkie.

A long moment as the men look at each other.

INT. MUSEUM STAIRWELL - NIGHT

D'Agosta's group has reached a lower floor.  Here this stairwell ends.

Ahead stretches the hall of the Asian peoples.

D'Agosta passes the walkie talkie to the Mayor.

The Mayor shuts off the walkie talkie and they round another corner

and disappear from sight.

INT. SECURITY ROOM - NIGHT

Ippolito finds Waters and the others staring at him.  Humiliated, he

swallows hard.

INT. HALL OF THE ASIAN PEOPLES - NIGHT

It's very dark.  The huge shape of MBWUN can barely be seen sliding out

of the stairwell and into the Hall of the Asian Peoples.  Then DIM RED

HALL LIGHTS come on in the corners of the ceiling.  The monster utters

a low growl.  The emergency generators are beginning to come on.  The

animal lopes to the spot where we last saw D'Agosta and his group,

sniffs the ground.  It looks up and, with a curiously human gesture,

cocks its massive head.

The silence is broken by VOICES!  They're in the distance and muffled,

but definitely there.  The monster crouches eagerly, lopes forward with

great stealth.  The voices are getting louder.  We follow as it goes

through the hall and down...

A STAIRWELL... At the bottom, Mbwun quickly turns a corner... The voices

have stopped.  Mbwun creeps forward, enters...

INT. HALL OF MARINE ANIMALS - NIGHT

A huge room several stories high.  A WHALE hangs suspended from the

ceiling.  Dioramas of fish line all the walls.  Mbwun pauses next to a

diorama of the gentle, vegetarian sea cow, THE MANATEE.  The two make a

startling contrast.

A pause and then the voices are heard again, much louder now.  The

source is right around the edge of the Manatee display.  Mbwun LEAPS

FORWARD, claws lashing out.  He turns the corner and crashes through a

wall of GLASS as he grabs at the source of the voices...

A display of small, extraordinarily life-like TALKING HOLOGRAMS!

They've been re-activated with the emergency power system.  Each little

talking figure is no more then five inches high.  They move around a

small three dimensional display of marine animals, explaining the lung

systems of fish.

MBWUN... stands in the pile of broken glass, stares at the holograms,

mesmerized.  He makes a noise that sounds astonishingly like a CHUCKLE!

Then he reaches out one long claw and tries unsuccessfully to touch

one of the holograms.  But the shadowy creatures can't be caught.  The

beast seems to realize this, SNORTS and moves off.  As he goes he

passes behind a

LARGE GLASS ELEVATOR.  It stands in middle the open room.  The elevator

is designed to carry people upstairs and down in the two story

exhibit.  In the dim light, with his poor vision, the monster doesn't

see D'Agosta, the Mayor, Kawakita, and their entire group SANDWICHED

INSIDE.  The monster exits the exhibit and quietly D'Agosta slides the

doors open.  Everyone, all thirty-five people in evening clothes,

quickly get out and run across the exhibit to another stairwell at the

far side of the hall.

INT. SECURE STORAGE AREA 1012 - NIGHT

Margo, Frock and Pendergast wait in the darkness.  Pendergast, for the

first time, seems fazed.

INT. CUTHBERT'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Cuthbert enters with Jonathan and the dog, Hobbes.  Cuthbert locks the

door with shaking hands.  He mutters to himself in terror.

Cuthbert scurries to his desk and pulls out a Ruger .38 Magnum.

He rummages in the darkness, going through his desk.

Cuthbert flips the phone open and turns it on.

Cuthbert crosses to a huge wall safe, starts frantically turning the

tumblers.  Jonathan follows with the dog.

Cuthbert fumbles to hand over the Ruger.  As he does, something drops.

Cuthbert drops to his knees, groping in the darkness.

Jonathan starts again, sweating.  The tumblers fall with agonizing

slowness.  Cuthbert continues groping frantically for his good luck

charm.  Meanwhile, unnoticed by Jonathan, the dog is staring at the oak

doors.  We see the HAIR ON HIS BACK rise!

Clutching the rabbit's foot like a talisman, Cuthbert leaps up just as

the last tumbler falls.

At this the oak doors behind them CRASH OPEN, splintering like so many

match sticks.

Cuthbert SCREAMS in a high pitch whine at the sight of the beast.  The

dog barks wildly at Mbwun!  Jonathan lifts his shot gun.  But the

monster barrels past him and zeros in on Cuthbert!

A HUGE RED TONGUE LICKS OUT and encircles Cuthbert's waist!  It

squeezes him horribly, drags him towards the open jaws!  Cuthbert

bellows like a lamb being led to the slaughter.  He opens his hand and

the rabbit's foot drops!  The last Jonathan sees of Cuthbert is his

head disappearing down Mbwun's throat.

Hobbes barks and whines in terror.  Jonathan takes the leash and drags

the animal out.

INT. MUSEUM HALLWAYS - NIGHT

Jonathan and Hobbes tear down the hallway and disappear.  Behind them

comes a roar so loud it rattles the walls.

INT. HALLWAYS - SECURE STORAGE AREA - NIGHT

The door opens slowly and Pendergast appears.  He shines his beam in

both directions.

Margo and Frock quickly come out.  Margo holds the crate.  Frock tries

to follow in his wheelchair.

At this a LOUD SOUND comes from upstairs!

All three know this ends the discussion.  Frock opens the door to room

1010.  Inside are shelves of priceless ivory tusks.  Margo takes

Pendergast's handkerchief and wraps her hand.  She quickly sprinkles

some of the fibers inside the door to room 1012.  Before Dr. Frock

disappears into room 1010, he looks back to Margo one last time.

INT. OSTEO PREP - NIGHT

Margo and Pendergast emerge from the hall to the storage rooms and run

for the far stairs.  From somewhere above the sound of running is

louder now.

INT. PLANETARIUM - NIGHT

D'Agosta and his group enter the large domed space in disarray.

They're spread out and panicked, the young helping the old.  Dr. Pound

is finding it hard to keep up.  Frank and his daughter Lauren bring him

along.  The Mayor quietly urges people forward.  His wife's face is

streaked with tears.  Kawakita runs with D'Agosta.

Now a voice is heard in the distance.

Everyone stops.  D'Agosta shines his light into the large space.  Above

them constellations glow.  D'Agosta calls out...

INT. HALL OF NORTH AMERICAN MAMMALS - NIGHT

Margo and Pendergast run.  Margo carries the crate carefully wrapped in

Pendergast's jacket.

There's a double steel fire door at the end of the hallway.  Pendergast

and Margo run for it.  Pendergast shoves at the door.  It won't budge.

There's a small glass window.  In it, D'Agosta's face appears.

INT. PLANETARIUM - NIGHT

D'Agosta turns to his group.

D'Agosta, Frank and Kawakita aim their guns at the door and shoot

repeatedly.  The shots echo wildly.  The sound is terrifyingly loud.  The

small glass window shatters.  Then the men lean heavily on the door.  It

still won't budge.  D'Agosta looks through the window.

Kawakita hands his walkie talkie through the window.  Margo takes it.

INT. HALL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN MAMMALS - NIGHT

Pendergast looks desperately at the blueprints.

Pendergast returns to the window.

D'Agosta turns to the others.

There's a movement of air... and a ripe, fetid smell.

D'Agosta pumps his shot gun.

The others move past.  D'Agosta, Frank and Greg Kawakita hold the rear.

The group runs to the side exit to the planetarium and in a moment,

disappears.

INT. HALL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN MAMMALS - NIGHT

Pendergast remains at the window watching anxiously.  From the south

entrance to the planetarium, an ENORMOUS DARK SHAPE slinks into view!

Pendergast steps back from the doorway, turns to Margo.

Pendergast checks his gun, totally calm.

Margo turns and looks around at the looming dioramas.  There's a plain

door at their end of the hall.  Pendergast faces the broken window.

HIS POV... the beast is slinking away after D'Agosta and the others,

headed to the north exit from the Planetarium!

PENDERGAST calls out...

THE BEAST PAUSES, turns.

Pendergast puts his palms up at his ears, wiggles his fingers and

makes a face through the window.

A LOW surprised GROWL comes from the beast.  It crouches as if to

pounce.  Pendergast makes more faces, sticks his tongue out.  The beast

watches in silence, its evil eyes fixed.

ON MARGO... watching Pendergast.  She can't leave him yet.

Suddenly there's a CRASH and the door BENDS like cardboard.  TWO HUGE

SETS OF CLAWS lash through!  Margo screams as the claws pass inches

from Pendergast's face.  He leaps back, lifts his gun which looks like

a pea shooter in the face of Mbwun.

Two sets of claws curve around the bent edges of the door, then Mbwun

simply LIFTS it out of the frame.  This leaves Pendergast face to face

with the foul, enormous monster!  It regards him evenly, blinks once.

Then the tongue slides out, licks its lips eagerly and...

Pendergast FLICKS on his high powered FLASHLIGHT, shining it at close

range right in the beast's eyes!  Then carefully, with total calm he

FIRES ONCE, TWICE.  The beast howls more in anger than pain, REARS UP

and swipes at Pendergast.  Pendergast dives to one side and, the claws

miss again by inches as the beast is temporarily blinded by the light.

Now Pendergast spins and runs for all he's worth.  Margo's been

waiting, holding the door.

She leaves the crate behind as Pendergast dives inside with her.  Margo

shoves the door shut hard as Mbwun, still blinded, leaps into the

hall.  But now, suddenly, all is quiet.  No sign of Margo and

Pendergast.  The beast moves forward, snuffling slowly.  It starts for

the door which hides Margo and Pendergast, but stops as it finds...

THE CRATE!  The beast moves to it, clearly surprised.  It pokes at the

crate carefully, inhales the fragrance and grunts.  The monster seems

to be struggling with itself!  It sniffs the fibers, lifts a few out

carefully, then SHOVES THE CRATE AWAY HARD.  Then it rises on its

haunches and squints into the dark.

On all sides are glowing displays of stuffed buffalo, gazelle, wild

horses, wolves, giant elk, sabre tooth tigers.  Mbwun moves close to

one after another.  Suddenly we notice, in the back of one of the

dioramas...

Margo and Pendergast!  They stand frozen, crouching behind mannequins

of native Americans riding horses across the plains.  The beast sniffs

RIGHT AT THEIR WINDOW, then turns away.  Confused, it heads back

towards the Planetarium and slinks from the room.

INSIDE THE DIORAMA... Pendergast and Margo exchange an astonished look.

They whisper.

INT. HALLWAY - MUSEUM - NIGHT

Greg, the Mayor, D'Agosta and the others are in a hallway lined with

at least a dozen vases.  A GREEK VASE has been shoved aside revealing

the outlines of a door.  Behind is a sloping dark corridor.  The last of

the thirty-five people pack in.  Greg and D'Agosta cover the corridor.

Grim-faced, D'Agosta follows Kawakita as they duck through the

doorway, shutting it behind them.  The impact rattles the wall and the

Greek vase falls.

INT. SUB-BASEMENT - NIGHT

Kawakita and D'Agosta reach the bottom and turn to see the Mayor, his

wife, Dr. Pound and their whole group standing in several feet of

rushing water.  Lauren is shivering.  Her father has his arm around her

tight.  Behind them are two corridors, one forking left and the other

straight.  D'Agosta gets out the walkie talkie, clicks it on.

INT. DIORAMA - NIGHT

Pendergast has the plans open as he studies them.  He speaks into the

walkie talkie.  Margo paces behind him, thinking hard.

INT. SUB-BASEMENT - NIGHT

D'Agosta shuts off his walkie talkie.  Everyone's staring at him.

D'Agosta nods.  Frank expertly reloads.  D'Agosta holsters the walkie

talkie and they plunge down the left hand passage.  Kawakita takes

charge of Lauren, who is confused and terrified.  The tunnel has a

slight downhill grade, and the water begins to move faster, tugging at

everyone's legs.  People slip and slide as they half make their way

down the hill.  D'Agosta calls behind them.

ON FRANK... back not far from the first fork.  He looks towards the head

of the tunnel, calls out...

Frank turns and plunges after the others.  But then suddenly, he stops.

ON D'AGOSTA... he reaches the second fork and takes a right.  This

tunnel is narrower and consequently the water is even deeper.  Slimy

plants hang down and slap at their faces as they push on.  D'Agosta

pulls out his walkie talkie.

But before Pendergast can answer, D'Agosta hears the loud report of

Frank's gun!  Everyone freezes in the darkness.  The walkie talkie

cackles and D'Agosta shouts!

They hear SPLASHING in the water.  Lauren SCREAMS, tries to run back.

Kawakita grabs her.  There's more thrashing water and then silence.

D'Agosta starts for Frank but the Mayor catches his arm and holds him.

Everyone waits, staring into the darkness.  Still no answer.  Lauren

SCREAMS AGAIN.

D'Agosta turns his flashlight on the water.  It's running red!  He spins

to the Mayor, points down the tunnel.

People start to cry and whimper as the Mayor urges them on.  He takes

charge of Lauren.  Only Greg Kawakita stays with D'Agosta.  They stand

shoulder to shoulder and completely alone.  Thrashing in the water can

be heard as the beast comes closer.  There's a low, pleasurable growl!

Both men lift their guns.

Kawakita nods.  Behind them in the tunnel is total blackness.  Ahead is

equally dark.  The noise of their friends gets ever fainter.  The water

now rushes half way up their thighs.  Kawakita's teeth start to

chatter.  He bites them shut, steadies his gun.

Silence as the water murmurs.  D'Agosta holds the count.  A long,

agonizing moment.  Kawakita takes his eyes away from the tunnel.

Suddenly a HUGE CLAW snakes out of the water right in front of them

and the beast roars up!  It was beneath the surface, directly before

them!  The claw closes on D'Agosta and his shot gun goes off.  D'Agosta

screams as the beast lifts him towards its mouth!

For one horrible moment, Kawakita is frozen.  Then he leaps forward,

shoves the barrel of his gun behind D'Agosta, right in the beast's

open jaws!  He pulls the trigger and the shotgun explodes, the recoil

throwing him back, ass over tea cups in the water.  With a roar of pain

the monster drops D'Agosta and retreats in the dark.  D'Agosta grabs

Kawakita.

They haul ass down the tunnel, firing behind them as they go.  Ahead is

another fork.  The group is waiting.  When they see D'Agosta and

Kawakita, a cheer goes up.

As he runs up, D'Agosta grabs for his walkie talkie.  The holster IS

EMPTY, the walkie talkie gone!  Without missing a beat he registers

what's happened, then covers it up with the next breath.  He points to

the right as if there's no doubt and says...

D'Agosta exchanges a look with Kawakita, who understands exactly what

happened.  As they plunge into the right tunnel, Greg mutters...

INT. HALL OF THE AFRICAN MAMMALS - NIGHT

Pendergast and Margo come out of the door leading to the back entry to

the dioramas.  Pendergast holds the walkie talkie, desperate.

Nothing but static comes in response.  Margo paces in agitation.

She points to one of the dioramas.  It shows a bird being stalked by a

fox.

Margo heads for the Planetarium, calling...

They disappear down the hall with the Greek vases, both calling with

all they've got.

EXT. MUSEUM ROOF - NIGHT

There are increasing numbers of SWAT vehicles around.  A HELICOPTER

lands on the roof.  The rescue effort continues to be slowed by rain

pouring down.  Ippolito is in the thick of the action.  The S.W.A.T.

commander, JENNINGS, comes over buckling an ammo belt over his

fatigues.

Jennings nods, goes off.  As Ippolito watches the S.W.A.T. team break

the glass skylights, gets ready to go in.

INT. HALL OF THE REPTILES - NIGHT

Jonathan crouches in the staircase at the end of the Hall of the

Reptiles.  Hobbes is still by his side.  He keeps the gun pointed out

into the room, his eyes scanning the dark.  He whispers to Hobbes, as

if to comfort both of them.

Suddenly he sees something.  What appears to be a BODY lying on a glass

case!  Jonathan pumps his gun, approaches slowly.  The man wears a

tuxedo, is lying very still.  As we get closer we see it's THE DRUNK

Kawakita ran into in the stairwell so long ago!  He suddenly HICCUPS.

Jonathan starts.  Now the man gently snores.  Jonathan moves to him,

shakes the drunk's shoulder.

The man snorts, opens his eyes and frowns.

Jonathan helps the drunk off the glass case.  The man's a little

unsteady as he tugs at his tux.

Hobbes has started to wag his tail and tug at the leash to draw

Jonathan's attention.

From above comes the beating of a distant HELICOPTER and then the

sound of breaking glass.  Hobbes pulls Jonathan back to the staircase.

Jonathan grins, follows behind with the drunk.

INT. HALL OF THE DINOSAURS - NIGHT

Huge skeletons of Tyrannosaurus, Stegosaurus and Brontosaurus loom in

the darkness.  Rain is pouring in.  Jonathan, Hobbes and the drunk

enter, looks up to the sky lights.  A FLASH OF LIGHTING hits,

illuminating the dinosaurs and a S.W.A.T. team which is descending on

a series of ropes.  It's a sixty foot drop.  Jonathan steps forward.

They run across the long hall and wait as the the men descend.  The

first one down is Jennings.

A sling suspended on ropes is lowered down.

Jennings signals to a group of five men, heavily armed and in flack

jackets.  They prepare to get the drunk out.

INT. HALL WITH GREEK VASES - NIGHT

Pendergast and Margo are at the top of the long, narrow shaft.

Pendergast's flashlight sends a circle of light onto a sheet of black,

oily water below.  Both of them continue calling, trying to draw off

the monster.

They suddenly hear the sound of splashing.  An updraft rustles their

clothes.  Margo sniffs the air, turns to Pendergast.

INT. SUB-BASEMENT - NIGHT

The group has reached another intersection of tunnels.  The left fork

turns back uphill.  D'Agosta indicates this tunnel.

They all press forward in the low vaulted darkness.  As they move

steadily upwards the water recedes.  Kawakita's flashlight flickers and

he bangs it.  It comes on again.

D'Agosta shines his light forward and they see that the shaft ends in

a large round PIPE.

Kawakita and D'Agosta move past the shivering people who are strung

out along the sides of the tunnel.  D'Agosta touches each person as he

passes.

INT. PIPE - NIGHT

The Mayor follows behind with the group as Kawakita and D'Agosta lead

the way.  The pipe is dry and rusted.  They move forward with stealth.

In twenty feet the pipe ends abruptly in darkness.  D'Agosta steps out

first.

INT. CAVERN - NIGHT

The group huddles at the mouth of the pipe, confused, as D'Agosta pans

his flashlight around the huge space.  The walls are carved out of dirt

and rounded like a cave.  From the ceiling hang huge cobwebs.  There's a

large pile of sticks in one corner fashioned rather like a bed.  On a

mound of dirt beside this bed rests a battered duffel bag.

Greg moves to it, shines his light on the side.  A name is written in

marker.

They move forward into the darkness eagerly, towards the ladder which

leads up to a manhole.  But as they pass the bed of twigs, something

loud CRUNCHES underfoot.

D'Agosta shines his light down and everyone freezes.  Then one woman

SCREAMS!

The wide dirt floor around them is carpeted in clean white BONES!  The

HUMMING noise is louder and we see its source.  Atop the bones is the

body of CUTHBERT!  It's covered with BLACK DERMESTID BEETLES.  They're

stripping the skeleton clean, devouring the flesh!

The group panics and breaks for the ladder.  Kawakita and D'Agosta once

more guard the rear.

INT. HALL OF THE NORTHWEST COAST INDIANS - NIGHT

Pendergast and Margo run down the long dark room, passing an enormous

hollowed-out canoe.  As they exit the far end, the dark shape of Mbwun

emerges.  It leaps forward, closing in fast.

INT. HALL OF THE ASIAN PEOPLES - NIGHT

Margo and Pendergast enter a series of maze-like room with hidden

corners, nooks and crannies with cases full of esoteric Buddhist and

Japanese Art.  They're running through the twists and turns as fast as

they can.

AT THIS THEY ROUND A CORNER AND MBWUN LEAPS OUT!  It circled ahead and

was waiting in front of them!  The animal swipes at Margo and

Pendergast.  The force of the monster's blow sends Margo reeling and

slams Pendergast into the wall.  He falls, crumples and drops his gun!

The case beside him SHATTERS spewing relics, as Mbwun pushes past.

Pendergast groans and gets to his knees with difficulty.

MARGO is frantically crawling away in the dark!  The beast makes a low

sound of pleasure and reaches out one claw, easily pins her down.

Pendergast looks frantically for any kind of weapon!

ON MARGO now PINNED BENEATH the heaving body of the monster!

Powerless, she looks up into the horrible face of death as Mbwun

raises an enormous claw!  Pendergast, desperate, cries out --

Oddly enough, the beast pauses for once.  Talking to the damn thing is

the one tactic no one has tried!  The claw halts in mid-air.  The beast

blinks once and looks from Pendergast to Margo.  Margo sees a flash of

something

whispers...

As they stare, amazed, imperceptibly, the beast appears to narrow its

eyes in response!  Margo controls her voice, keeps it even.

A strange noise comes out of the monster.  A low, confused growl.  He

doesn't loosen his grip on Margo, but he leans down to look at her

closer with one green, unblinking eye.

She struggles not to turn away in revulsion.  His enormous jaws are

right near her throat.  Everything is very still.  And then...

A BARRAGE OF FIRE breaks out!  The S.W.A.T. team is in the doorway,

laying down everything they've got.  The creature ROARS as if betrayed,

leaves Margo and LEAPS UP.  It barrels down on the S.W.A.T. team, picks

up Jennings and SPIKES HIM TO THE GROUND.  Jennings hits the floor with

his neck at a crazy angle.  It snaps like a twig.  The other men drop

back.  Mbwun follows, tearing through the men, cutting a deathly swath!

Pendergast moves to help the S.W.A.T. team.  Margo struggles to her

feet and her hand touches the wall.  Beside her is a FIRE HOSE in a

cabinet!  In a split second Margo hauls it out, throws a switch and

gets a BLAST OF WATER.  She turns it on the beast as it grabs for

Pendergast.  The force of the water is enormous.  It pushes the monster

out the end of the hall.

Pendergast runs towards her, takes the hose and holds it.

She takes off blindly in the maze-like room.  From somewhere behind her

she hears a horrible HOWL.

ON MARGO... as she twists and turns through the rows of display cases,

tearing blindly in the dark.  Ahead is a door.  She dives through it and

finds she's in...

INT. MEN'S ROOM - MUSEUM - NIGHT

A row of mirrors and urinals line the wall.  It's a huge room, designed

to handle crowds of visitors.  Margo ducks into one of the stalls as

MBWUN crashes in.  Margo looks through a crack in the door to see...

THE ANIMAL AT FULL STOP.  IT'S STARING AT ITSELF IN THE ROW OF MIRRORS!

The sight appalls it and the beast lets out a hideous sound!  The claws

lash out, breaking every mirror in the place, littering the floor with

glass!

Then the beast turns and backs up, groaning, as if cornered.  Margo

sees now that one limb is dragging, leaving a trail of blood.  The

mouth, too, appears to be bleeding.  The S.W.A.T. team's bullets had an

affect.

Margo presses back in the stall, bracing as the beast gets closer.

It's just outside.  It sniffs the air once and suddenly turns, rears

up, furious and crashes through the bathroom door.  Margo screams and

the thing grabs her!  It holds Margo up before it and roars.  It closes

its massive claws around her as if she is somehow responsible for

everything.  The claws tighten!  She struggles and fights to no purpose

... but then the beast pauses... it's seen something!

THE NECKLACE WITH TWO ARROWS AROUND HER NECK!

It stops and its grip loosens!  A pained look flashes across its

bestial face...

And in that split moment Margo looks down...

necklace is the twin to her own!

ON MARGO... Can it be possible?  She stares at the thing...

Incredibly the beast shakes its head.  A noise comes from it... a sad

noise, like a groan.  And now Margo gets it!  She can hardly believe it.

Her eyes widen in astonishment.  She whispers...

The name is a knife through the monster's heart!

The last piece of the puzzle falls.  The monster is John Whittlesley!

Margo, still desperately frightened, tries to keep control.

The monster shakes its head no and releases her.  As she watches he

moves away, quickly limps out the door.

INT. HALL OF THE ASIAN PEOPLES - NIGHT

Mbwun now drags himself across the grey carpet, headed for the stairs.

In the darkness of the hall of Asian Peoples, Pendergast is waiting.

He lifts one of the S.W.A.T. team rifles which he holds in his hands.

He aims, is about to fire, but then Margo comes up behind him.

Pendergast looks over and sees the monster.  His eyes show disbelief.

Mbwun looks back at both of them briefly, then it disappears up the

stairs.

Margo tries to stop him, but he shrugs her off.

EXT. MUSEUM ROOF - NIGHT

A helicopter hovers outside pouring a circle of light down on the

roof.  Ippolito watches as the drunk is pulled up through the hall in a

sling.  Waters approaches, holding the walkie talkie.

Ippolito eyes are fixed on the room below them.

Lightning throws horrible shadows of the hulking dinosaur skeletons

all around as MBWUN LIMPS INTO THE HALL!  The men on the roof stare

down astonished.  Their mouths hang open at the sight!

The men get the drunk up and abandon the sling, leaving Jonathan

trapped below.

INT. HALL OF THE DINOSAURS - NIGHT

Jonathan and Hobbes take cover behind one of the dinosaurs and hide.

Mbwun sees Jonathan, lifts both claws, SWINGS at the skeleton, sending

it crashing down!  Jonathan SCREAMS, Hobbes is caught and falls.  He

scrambles into a corner, whimpering, as Pendergast and Margo appear in

the door.  Fifteen more S.W.A.T. team members with rifles now line the

hole in the roof.  They all point their guns at Mbwun.

Now Margo runs forward.

MBWUN... turns and sees Margo.  She speaks desperately.

Mbwun seems to consider for a moment, but then its eyes gleam and it

ROARS.  With renewed vigor it leaps to the wall and starts to WALK UP

IT like a GECKO, ON ALL FOURS!  ON THE ROOF...

Some of the S.W.A.T. team fall back in terror!  Now that the monster is

on the wall it's out of range of their fire!

Ippolito turns and takes off once more in sheer terror.  Astonished,

Waters tries to regain control.

But the men are terrified, retreating like Ippolito.  Waters shouts.

But the team is in chaos and losing precious time.

INT. HALL OF THE DINOSAURS - NIGHT

The MONSTER is now half way up the wall.  Margo is distraught, crying.

Her cool demeanor is cracked.  Pendergast is with her.  She shakes her

head.

Pendergast raises a HIGH POWERED RIFLE with a laser sight.  He aims the

red laser beam directly at Mbwun's left eye.

Margo takes a moment, her eyes streaming.  She has no choice, she calls

out.

The beast looks down, sees Pendergast's rifle.  There's a long, awful,

moment.  Suddenly it emits a sound like a wail.

ON JONATHAN... staring, stunned.

PENDERGAST... steady...

MARGO... She's crying as she raises her arm as if to say good-bye.

And the gun EXPLODES.

ON MBWUN... its head shoots back in pain, and it falls... sixty feet

straight down to the ground.  Silence.  Thunder rolls.

It's over.  Pendergast turns to Margo and quietly folds her in his

arms.

EXT. MUSEUM - NIGHT

There are cops and journalists, ambulances, and medivacs all over the

place.  Greg Kawakita, wet and bedraggled as a rat, runs up from

Columbus Ave.  Behind him the Mayor and D'Agosta help the rest of the

company to the ambulances.

Waters is on the steps of the museum, helping to organize the rescue

efforts as Kawakita runs up to Pendergast.

Greg turns to see Margo come out of the Rotunda with Frock, Jonathan

and Hobbes.  Her face is devastated.  He moves to her side.  She reacts

as she sees him, and teacher and pupil hug.

D'AGOSTA is lost in the swirl of people.  And he likes it like that.  He

rests against a large stone lion, pulls out a cheap cigar in

cellophane, unwraps it carefully and tries to light it with a wet

match.

He's struggling hopelessly.  Finally he tosses the useless pack of

matches, sighs.  But then a flame lowers right before his face.  He

looks up to see Pendergast holding a silver engraved lighter.  D'Agosta

smiles, takes a nice long hit.

We go to a wide shot of the museum as we slowly pull back...

EXT. NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM - DAY - SUPER TITLE: SEVERAL MONTHS LATER

Christmas decorations are up.  A light snow is falling.  There is a very

long line.

INT. NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM - GIFT SHOP - DAY

All the registers are doing a booming business.  People are buying

Mbwun posters, t-shirts and hats.

INT. SUPERSTITION EXHIBIT - DAY

School tours, old ladies, parents and children, foreign tourists with

cameras snake through the displays.  In the room with the Relic,

there's a tremendous crowd.

INT. MARGO'S LABORATORY - DAY

Margo closes her computer, looks out a window at the falling snow.  She

turns and walks into the back office.  Kawakita is working there alone.

His fly-fishing rod stands in the corner, untouched.  Margo goes to it,

smiles softly.

Greg looks up from his work and smiles.

Margo exits.  Greg returns to his work.

INT. HALLWAYS - MUSEUM - DAY

Margo heads down the hall to the Director's office.  She walks through

the new double oak doors to find DR. FROCK seated at Cuthbert's old

desk.

PENDERGAST and D'AGOSTA rise out of two high-backed chairs.  Margo

smiles for the first time, takes Pendergast's hands.

INT. HALL OF THE SOUTH AMERICAN MAMMALS - DAY

Margo, Pendergast, and D'Agosta follow Frock past the familiar

dioramas.

They pause on a NEW DIORAMA.  It's huge, filling one entire end of the

hall.  In the center is a life-sized representation of MBWUN standing

on the tepui amid the plants.  Behind is a painting of John Whittlesley

as he once was.  He wears the necklace with the two arrows, of silver

and gold.  As Margo looks, she touches her own.  Pendergast turns to

her, sympathy in his eyes.

Margo smiles warmly.

INT. MARGO'S LABS - DAY

Greg Kawakita wears gloves, high powered glasses, works in solitude in

the lab.  Suddenly he stands up, throws off the glasses, then he sits

down again.  He seems to be struggling with himself.  He glances over

his shoulder to make sure he's alone.  Quickly he moves to a locked

drawer.  He opens it with a key from his pocket and takes out a small

envelope, looks inside.

INSERT... the envelope is full of the PLANT FIBERS!  Greg has managed to

keep his own cache!

Moving quickly, with jerky motions, he lays one fiber down on a slide

with a shaking hand.  With an exacto knife, he cuts off a tiny sliver,

pops it into his mouth.  He closes his eyes in ecstasy and savors the

taste.  Then he cuts one more infinitesimal sliver, leaves it on the

slide.  He takes a deep breath, returns the envelope to the drawer.  He

turns the key carefully and we GO CLOSE ON HIS HAND...

On the back is A ROW OF SCALES...

