Darkness.

The soft sound of moving water can be heard in the background.

From the top of the screen a tiny, floating light moves its way

downwards across the screen. As it passes, we see just under

the water part of a young mans face. His eyes are closed. The

light disappears, and across the darkness appears the title S

A W. The title fades away.

The tiny light appears again, this time floating down at the

end of a tub of water, just near someones bare foot. The camera

cuts again to the face of the young man underwater. This is ADAM.

Suddenly, his eyes fly open and he comes to life, opening his

mouth and gasping for air. As he wakes up and struggles within

the bathtub, we see his foot catch on a drain plug, unplugging

it. The water starts to drain, and we see go with the water the

tiny light, which we can also see has some kind of key attached

to it. The room itself is pitch black, but we can still just

barely make him out in the dark. Adam lifts himself out of the

tub and falls onto the floor, coughing and gasping from the shock.

He manages to get to his feet, but as he moves forward he realizes

that his ankle is chained to something. He feels his way over

to a pipe in the corner, reaching down and pulling at his chain

that is attached to it. He cries out, his voice frantic, frightened,

and a bit hysterical.

Suddenly, from out within the darkness comes a mans low, raspy

voice. It startles Adam. The voice, we will soon learn, belongs

to LAWRENCE.

Adam quickly turns in the direction of the voice. Holding his

arms out for balance, he tries to look across the room to whoever

is speaking, but still cannot see a thing.

With a loud click and an even louder buzzing sound, the very

bright fluorescent lights come to life, lighting up in rows,

starting from Lawrences end and moving towards Adam. As they

come on, Adam is nearly blinded by the sudden change from pitch

black to bright white and squints in pain, holding up his arms

to cover his face. In the light we now see that he is in his

mid-twenties, with short brown hair, wearing a dark blue striped

shirt over a white tee shirt and jeans, looking like a drowned

rat from the tub. It takes him a moment but his eyes finally

start to adjust, and he looks around the room. He and we see

Lawrence, who also winces from the glare of the lights, standing

by the light switch and the door. He is on the opposite end of

the room, also chained to a pipe in the corner by his foot. He

wears a blue button-down dress shirt, now soaked with sweat stains.

He is middle aged, mid to late forties, with pale blonde hair

and even paler skin. Dark circles are under his eyes. Both men

are barefoot.

Lawrences eyes adjust to the light and he sees across the room.

Then, his gaze starts towards the center of the room, as does

Adams, who steps forward as much as he can, a look of horror

on his face. We see lying face down the body of a man who has

blown his brains out, lying in a pool of blood, clad in only

boxer shorts and a tee shirt. In his left hand is a gun, in his

right hand is a micro cassette recorder. A gunshot and a scream

are heard as the camera moves up and in a fast 360 angle above

and circling the man, ending in a full overhead view of him.

The shot cuts to Adam, who reels in shock and disgust.

He turns towards the tub and leans over, gagging and coughing.

Lawrence in the meantime hops forward the best he can, studying

the body with a look of fear and concern. Adam stops coughing

and turns back around, takes another look at the body and around

the room. He looks down at his chain then starts to completely

freak out, grabbing and pulling at his chain.

Lawrence just stands and watches him with an almost embarrassed,

appalled look at his behaviour. It seems that Lawrence, despite

being in the situation hes in, is above that kind of uncontrolled

reaction. He speaks a bit coldly.

Adam stops pulling at the chain, stands up and looks to Lawrence,

his breathing fast and heavy. His voice is not yelling anymore

but still just as hysterical.

Adam looks down at himself, shrugging slightly.

Lawrence moves over to the pipe in the corner, leaning against

it for support.

Adam kneels back down facing the pipe, pulling at his chains

once more, but not with his prior panic. He winces at the metal

biting into his skin.

Lawrence looks at Adam with a look that seems to say Im stuck

in here with THIS guy? He then glances down at the body.

Adam continues to pull at his chains, does not and will not look

at the body, just shakes his head.

Adam just sits there, glancing over to the body and then focusing

on it much more. The initial panic has worn off for now, replaced

simply with fear and shock. His voice is a bit softer.

Lawrence slowly lowers himself into a sitting position against

the wall. He pokes slightly at the iron cuff around his foot.

Suddenly, Adam leaps up, lifting up his shirt and exposing his

abdomen. His panic is back, but not at full force like before.

He studies himself then glances to Lawrence.

Adam stands back up, turns to Lawrence, his voice once again

calm.

Lawrence moves over as far as the chain will allow him to the

giant, wooden sliding door, pushing against it as hard as he

can. In the meantime, we see Adam thinking. He pauses, then reaches

down and starts going through his pockets. There is nothing in

the front two, but in his back left pocket he pulls out a plastic

baggie with a white envelope in it. He unfolds the baggie; the

envelope says ADAM. He stares at it in his hands, wondering what

it is.

Lawrence continues struggling with the door, quickly glances

over his shoulder to see what Adam is doing. He sees Adam holding

the baggie. Adam reaches into the envelope, pulls out a micro

cassette tape. A close up shows the words Play Me written on

the tape label. Adam holds it in his hand, studying it. Lawrence

turns away from the door, looking over and trying to see what

Adam has in his hand.

Lawrence thinks about that briefly then starts digging through

his own pockets, finds within them a white envelope with LAWRENCE

written across it in the same black lettering as Adams.

Lawrence tears into his envelope, empties the contents into the

palm of his hand. First, he holds up a similar tape to Adams.

It also says Play Me. Then he holds up a single bullet, studying

it, not sure what its there for yet. Then, he holds up a tiny

key. He bends over, gets down on the floor and starts to try

to unlock his chains with the key. It doesnt seem to be working.

Lawrence gives him a slightly mistrustful look, but then holds

up the key and throws it. Adam misses the key at first as it

hits the floor in front of the dirty toilet near his corner.

Adam gives up, drops the key onto the floor frustratedly, shaking

his head. Thats when he looks over to the body again, and the

shot closes up on the hand holding the tape recorder. A small

loop handle juts out of the hands grip. Adam stands up, then

bends down and picks up the tape on the floor, looking at it.

He puts it back down then stretches himself flat out on the floor,

trying to reach. Unfortunately, there is still a good three to

four feet between him and the body.

Adam looks down at himself, then takes off the long sleeved blue

shirt. He lays back down, holding the shirt by the ends of each

sleeve, and throws it, trying to catch it on the tape recorder.

It misses. He tries a second time; same result.

Adam tries again; it misses. It is just barely reaching. He pulls

the shirt back, gets back up on his knees, aggravated.

Adam looks around his area, then into the bathtub. He sees something,

bends over, takes out the tub plug, which is attached to a long

cord. He ties the cord around the sleeve of his shirt. He kneels

down, holding out the shirt, aiming.

Adam throws it, attempting to get the plug through the loop at

the end of the tape recorder. He misses.

He tries again and misses. On the third try, however, he gets

the plug right through the loop. Lawrence smiles in relief. Adam

very slowly pulls it back, dragging the tape recorder along the

floor towards him. He picks it up, getting rid of the plug and

dropping it and the shirt on the floor. He picks up the tape,

pops it in and presses play, holding the tape recorder out a

bit so that they can both hear, but keeping his head tilted so

he can hear better. A chilling deep, raspy, sinister male voice

The Jigsaw Killer comes from the tape. As it speaks, Adams expression

is fearful, but the thought How does he know? can be detected.

Adam looks frightened but not sure of the entire meaning of the

message.

Lawrence pauses, looking at Adam as though hed like to smack

him, then holds up and tosses the tape. It hits the floor behind

Adam, who kneels down and picks it up, pops it in, presses play.

Its the same chilling voice as on Adams tape. As the tape plays,

Adam stares at Lawrence, and Lawrence at the tape recorder.

The looks on each mans face clearly say Oh Shit. The tape ends.

Lawrence stands up.

Lawrence stops the tape.

Lawrence is looking around, on the walls and everywhere else

in the bathroom for a heart. He spots a small one drawn in brown

on the toilet next to Adam and points.

Adam looks, sees the toilet. Slowly, he bends down, resting his

hands on the seat, looking down into the bowl of liquid shit,

not really sure what hes looking for.

Adam glances up at Lawrence with a look of Youve got to be kidding

me, but Lawrence watches him expectantly. Adam sighs, then reaches

in with his right hand, fishing around in the mess.

Adam takes off the lid, places it down on the toilet seat. The

water is clearer inside, and he reaches in and pulls out something

wrapped up in a black garbage bag. He holds it up for Lawrence

to see, turns to him.

Adam tears into the bag, reaches in and pulls out two hacksaws.

He drops the bag on the floor, bends down and takes up his chain,

holding one of the hacksaws and beginning to saw at the chain

with it. Lawrence watches him for a moment.

Adam reaches over and picks up the other hacksaw, then carefully

throws it across the room. It hits the pipe to Lawrences left.

Lawrence reaches down and picks it up, then sits down on the

floor. Quick shot back to Adam, who, while Lawrence is preoccupied

with picking up the hacksaw, quickly picks up the garbage bag

and tosses it into the bathtub. Both men start to saw away at

their chains furiously, but neither are making any progress.

Suddenly, Adams saw snaps in the middle, and his temper flares.

Lawrence glances over at what Adam has done, then goes back to

sawing for another moment. Adam sits back down, breathing heavily,

leaning against the pipe in his corner. Finally, Lawrence gives

up, turning and sitting with his back against the pipe, also

breathing heavily for a moment. He sits there, when a look of

realization comes across his face. He holds up the saw, looking

at it, understanding. He lowers it to the floor, shaking his

head slightly.

The camera closes up on Lawrences face. To the right of it,

the screen is fading into a flashback of a crime scene. As Lawrence

speaks, his face fades and the flashback scene grows clearer,

until it is only the crime scene, with three detectives walking

down a flight of stairs.

We now see the three figures descending through a trap door down

a flight of stairs. The lighting is a bright lime green that

is strangely dark at the same time. The trio enters a small,

cell like room with a low ceiling. They are TAPP, SING, and KERRY.

Tapp is a tall black man in his late forties-early fifties. Sing

is an Asian man in his mid to late thirties, and Kerry is a Caucasian

woman in her mid to late thirties with long, curly brown hair

that is tied back in a ponytail. All are well dressed, Sing and

Tapp in suits, the woman in a jacket and dress slacks. They are

the detectives working on this case.

As they move into the room, Sing sees something that brings a

look of shock to his face, shining a flashlight on it. We cannot

see it yet.

Tapp comes into the room last, ducking slightly from his height,

and comes up alongside Sing, looking at the same thing.

Cut back to Detective Tapp, who notices something and shines

his light on it. We see a strange wound on Pauls body, a piece

of flesh carved out into the shape of a jigsaw piece.

Cut back to Lawrence in the bathroom. For his next two spoken

lines, the shot switches back and forth between him and the detectives

in the razor wire room.

Sing, wearing gloves, gets in the cage and examines Pauls body

a bit. A flash of another crime scene photo of the wound with

a ruler held up to it is shown. More gruesome crime scene photos

of that and other wounds are flashed across the screen.

Cut to Sing kneeled down over a charred corpse, completely blackened,

at another crime scene. We hear Jigsaws voice from a tape recorder

play over the scene as the detectives look around, and over the

flashback shots.

We see Mark desperately going around the room, holding the candle,

looking at the walls, trying to find a combination. The camera

goes back and forth a few times in a sped-up shot to him doing

this and turning a the lock on the safe, trying to program the

combination into the safe. He moves in a circle, clockwise to

us. When he gets to facing right in front of us, the flame from

the candle flares up and engulfs the shot, flaring into a close-up

crime scene photo of Marks charred face.

The shot moves back to the trio of detectives, with Sing holding

the tape recorder.

In the doorway, an orderly pushing a cart of cleaning supplies

is passing by and stops when he sees Lawrence and the medical

students in the room, listening to what Lawrence is saying. This

is Zep. Hes a man in his early to late forties dressed in orderly

whites with short brown hair and large blue eyes that show a

kindness that the others in the room seem to be lacking. Kindness,

and something else below the surface. He glances down at John

sleeping, then up at Lawrence.

Lawrence looks almost slightly embarrassed, not for himself but

maybe for Zep. A condescending, smug smile plays across his face

and he nods. His tone matches his look.

But he is cut off by a voice on the intercom.

Cut to Lawrences office at the hospital . Inside, Tapp is leaning

against Dr. Gordons chair, studying the various framed degrees

on the wall. Sing is sitting in one of the two chairs across

from the desk, twisted around in his seat to look at a couple

of small picture frames on the bookshelf behind him. Lawrence

opens the door and enters, and the two detectives turn to look

at him. He removes his white coat and hangs it on a rack by the

door. Tapp speaks first, his tone is friendly, but searching.

Lawrence smiles, pretending to care about what they think, truly

just wanting to get this over with so as to not waste any more

of his time. As he speaks, he walks over to the chair behind

his desk.

Tapps tone turns a bit more serious, but still amiable enough.

Tapp produces the penlight from his pocket, holds it up for Dr.

Gordon.

He puts the penlight down on the desk. Lawrence picks it up,

a brief oh shit look flashing across his face only to be quickly

covered up. He looks at the pen strangely. The two detectives

carefully study his reaction. Lawrence looks back up at them.

Cut to the Police Station. In an interrogation room, Lawrence

paces back and forth nervously, now wearing his suit jacket.

His lawyer sits at the table, taking notes.

Cut back to the Bathroom. Lawrence, still sitting against the

wall, throws down his hacksaw next to him, resting his hand against

his knee.

Cut back to the Interrogation room, some time Later. Lawrence

is sitting alone at the table. Sing comes through the door, shuts

it behind him.

Camera moves into the Interrogation room with Amanda, Tapp, and

the unidentified man. As Tapp speaks, the camera slowly moves

closer over his shoulder and towards Amanda. As we get closer

to her, we see long, strange, scar-like markings along each side

of her mouth. She is shaken, her eyes distant, never looking

anyone, including Tapp, in the eye. It is clear that her mind

is still lost somewhere within her nightmare.

We move closer and closer to Amanda, then suddenly the camera

spins round quickly and snaps into an alternate view of her,

her flashback. The room she is in has the same lime-green lighting

as Pauls cell. Amanda sits in a chair wearing a strange iron

contraption around her head, a bear-trap like device covering

her mouth. We can see her eyes, surrounded with black eyeliner,

as they slowly open, groggy, just waking up.

She continues to struggle against her bonds some more. The camera

circles around her, and we get a better view of the strange device

on her head, and the padlock and timer on the back of it. A long

wire hangs down from the timer and below the screen.

The view switches to the side of her and we see next to her an

old television set, which suddenly switches on, startling her.

After a brief moment of static, the frightening image of a demented

clown-like doll its face white with red spirals on its cheeks,

its red eyes leering at Amanda from the screen. She stares at

it, her moans a bit softer to match her fear and utter confusion.

The doll speaks, the jaw moving; it is the voice of Jigsaw.

The video pans back to a view of the doll and the device. The

dolls head moves and looks down at the device, and the camera

zooms in on it. A timer ticks away. A few seconds later, SNAP!

The device springs and the fake head is crushed and explodes.

Amanda shrieks, her eyes widening. The video switches back to

a close up of the doll.

The video goes to white and gray static, then switches off. Amanda

begins to struggle like a madwoman against her bonds and the

chair. The camera swings around her, circling, making her movements

fast and jerky. Amanda manages to pull one arm free, then the

other and stands up quickly. Thats when the cord in the back

of the device is pulled out, and the timer starts. She freezes,

her eyes widening. We see a close-up of the timer, and it begins

its sixty second countdown. She reaches behind her head, pulling

at the lock and the timer, trying to pull it off, but it is stuck

there. She starts freaking out, pulling at it as much as she

can, the camera movements once again fast and jerky around her.

The camera spins back to Amanda sitting still in her chair in

the interrogation room, sniffling. We see a brief shot of Lawrence,

who watches and listens to her with grim amazement. Back to Amanda.

We switch back into Amandas cell. Over her shoulder, we see

near the corner the body of a man lying on the floor on his back.

Amanda cautiously approaches it, the timer still ticking away,

her hands still at the device. She kneels down cautiously next

to him. She reaches down and with a shaking hand lifts up his

shirt, revealing a large, black question mark drawn on his abdomen.

She sobs harder, hunched over him.

Quick cut to the interrogation room, Amanda in the center of

the shot.

Back to the cell. Amanda, still leaning over, picks up a small

knife next to the body. She slowly brings it up in both of her

shaking hands, clutching it. She looks closer at it. A quick

shot of the timer shows it to be at 25 seconds now, almost halfway.

The camera moves to a shot of the mans face, when...

HE OPENS HIS EYES AND STARTS TO WAKE UP. He moans, unable to

speak or move. His eyes slowly, groggily look around a bit. He

cannot even open his mouth; someone has very heavily drugged

him. He sees Amanda over him with a knife and his eyes widen;

he tries to moan at her to stop, to not do what shes about to

do, but she turns the knife upside down in both hands and quickly

stabs down. He moans in agony in the background as she stabs

down again, and again, and again. Blood splashes on her hands.

A quick shot back of Lawrence as he listens, his mouth open slightly,

eyes wide, staring at her. Cut back to Amanda in the cell as

she stabs down a few more times. Then back again to the table

in Lawrences interrogation room. Sing throws down an evidence

baggie with a used syringe in it.

Back to Amandas Interrogation room, her head still hung, still

sniffling. A view of Tapp as he asks

Cut back to the cell, her bloody hands sifting through intestines

for a key. Cut back to interrogation room Amanda, then cut back

again to her holding up a liver or some other organ. Back to

interrogation room Amanda, the horror on her face growing, then

back to the cell.

Amanda s hand pulls a small key from inside the organ shes

holding. She reaches around the back of her head, quickly trying

to unlock the padlock. The timer ticks away, faster and faster.

She gets it, pulls off the padlock and opens the device in the

back, ripping it away from her head and throwing it down as it

snaps open. She lets out the most terrible, agonized, heart-wrenching

scream, sobbing loudly, her hands held out in front of her, rocking

back and forth.

Suddenly from another corner of the room, a light comes on, revealing

the puppet from the video in the corner. Amanda sees it, staring

at it wide eyed, her sobs softening for a moment as she stares

at it. Slowly, it wheels towards her on a tricycle. She can only

stare and cry, not sure what to do or expect. It stops, leering

at her, then speaks.

Cut back into a close up of Amanda in the interrogation room,

her head still shaking a bit, almost like a series of slight

spasms. She continues to sniffle, her eyes far off. Cut to Tapp.

She finally raises her head, looking into his eyes for the first

time.

As she starts sniffling and breathing more heavily, Tapp looks

over his shoulder into Lawrences room, right in his direction.

He may not see him, but he knows hes there. The camera then

cuts back to Amanda, who starts sobbing more heavily again. Slowly,

the camera moves down into and under the table, fading back into

an overhead view of the bathroom where Lawrence and Adam are.

Adam sits in his corner, staring down at the floor as he has

been listening to Lawrences story. He looks up across to Lawrence.

Lawrence notices that Adams ranting has ended, glances over

at him.

Adam drops the shard down on the floor carefully, then reaches

over to the corner behind him, leaning down and picking up a

loose padlock. He lifts it up and throws it as hard as he can

against the mirror, shattering most of the glass. Lawrence briefly

startles at the sound and force of the glass shattering. Adam

reaches back down, finds another piece of debris and throws that

at the mirror with just as much force. The rest of the glass

breaks away, and a camera with a red light can bee seen behind

a clear glass. Lawrence stands up to get a better look at it.

We movie in closer to the camera, getting a better look at it

as well.

Suddenly there is a flash of static and we find ourselves looking

at a fuzzy, black and white surveillance video of Lawrence and

Adam in the bathroom, staring right at us into the camera. The

shot pulls back a bit and we see that the video is on a silver

surveillance monitor. A partial view of other recording-type

equipment can be seen on either side of the monitor. A mans

voice speaks, though it doesnt sound quite the same as on the

Jigsaw tapes. As he speaks, a hand wearing a black leather glove

raises up slightly and waves its fingers at the screen.

The shot transitions from the video view of Adam back into regular

view in the bathroom. Adam stands in a threatening pose to the

camera, speaks angrily, loudly to it, his voice dripping with

sarcasm.

Adam does not help him look. He simply cannot believe Lawrences

calm demeanor in this situation anymore. It seems that he is

almost becoming as sick of Lawrences attitude as Lawrence is

of his. He speaks a with a bit of a hyper tone again, accusingly.

Lawrence turns away from Adam, placing his hand on the pipe behind

him, and the shot moves up into blackness, then up at the foot

of a little girls bed in a darkened bedroom. The little girl

is Diana. Shes about 5 or 6 years old, with long, wavy light

brown hair. She lays tucked in with her eyes closed, her favourite

teddy bear wrapped in her left arm. The camera moves up and over

her a bit, moving in closer to her. Chimes can be heard tinkling

very faintly against a soft breeze. As the shot pauses just above

her, her eyes suddenly open, blinking away sleepiness. She sits

up, pulling away the covers, still holding her teddy bear. She

remains sitting in her bed, staring over into the dark corner

to her right. The chimes jingle away. We move in closer to her

face; something has her spooked. A clock ticking is suddenly

heard as the image fades from Diana getting out of bed into a

strange, mechanical-looking clock on the living room wall of

the Gordon Household.

The shot lowers and we see the nicely furnished living room of

the Gordon home. The walls are a dark, crimson red, the furniture

in tones of red and brown. It definitely is the living room of

a well-off family. Not too cold, but not as warm and homey as

it could be. Diana slowly makes her way across the living room

towards her parents bedroom, moving almost dream-like, her teddy

bear hanging limply from her right hand. She moves to the frosted

glass double doors of her parents room, opening them both into

the bedroom, where we see her mother, Alison, laying on her side,

fast asleep. Alison is in her early to mid thirties with long

blond hair going just past her shoulders and very pretty despite

her sleepiness and messy hair in this scene. Diana moves into

the room, standing next to the bed, saying nothing, just watching

her mother sleeping. Alisons eyes slowly open; the feeling of

being watched plus the instincts of a mother have awoken her.

She reaches over and turns on the light, looking upon her daughter

with concern.

Alison reaches up and touches Dianas hair, bringing her hand

down in a soft caress on Dianas cheek.

She stands and leads Diana out of the room. Cut to Lawrences

office. Lawrence sits hunched slightly over his laptop computer,

focused on some paper hes writing. Diana and Alison appear in

the doorway to his left. He doesnt even look up, just keeps

typing. Alisons tone when she speaks indicates that she knows

hell probably say no, or put it off on her.

Alison waits a moment, then turns to Diana.

They turn, slowly start to walk away as Lawrence quickly finishes

typing, then closes the laptop.

Cut to Dianas room. Lawrence reaches over and turns on the lamp

on Dianas side table. Diana lies in bed, slightly propped up

against her pillows and stuffed animals. Lawrence sits on the

side of her bed.

Just then, Lawrences beeper goes off. He leans back, takes it

out and looks at it.

He moves his face closer to her and together they say

Lawrence gets up and goes to the door, flipping the lights off.

He pauses before he steps out.

Quick cut to the Entrance Hall of the Gordon Residence. Lawrence

walks towards the door, Alison behind him. Alisons voice starts

to cut over the scene. Her tone is very pissed off.

Cut to Adam, looking at the picture he pulled out. His face is

blank, but you can sense great disturbance behind it. Cut to

a shot of the photo he is holding. It is not the one Lawrence

described, but a Polaroid of Alison and Diana bound and gagged,

and the message Regards with a jigsaw piece drawn next to it.

He turns the photo over, and there is a message. As he reads

it, Jigsaw reads it aloud in a voiceover.

Adam does his best to hide what he has seen, looks up to Lawrence.

Alisons voice over is heard as he says this and continues to

look through the wallet, and we hear Alisons voiceover from

the scene in the main hall.

CUT TO the Main Hall of the Gordon Residence, back to the earlier

flashback of Lawrence and Alison. This time, we stay with them.

He looks at her for a moment, searching, then slowly turns away

and heads out the door.

The closet doors burst open and Diana screams. Cut back to the

main hall where Alison stands alone, her head lowered slightly.

As soon as she hears the scream she turns and bolts towards her

daughters room.

Alison gets to just outside the door to her bedroom.

Quick cut to NOW, in Alison and Lawrences bedroom. Waistline

shot of a figure wearing a black coat, black leather gloves and

blue jeans, holding a stethoscope. A gun is tucked into his belt

and Dianas teddy bear tucked under his arm. He saunters over

to the gagged and bound Diana and Alison, on the floor and tied

to a corner end of the bed. Alison, her eyes streaming tears,

struggles and pulls against her bonds to try to get at him but

fails. Diana keeps crying Mommy! over and over again and sobbing.

The figure crouches down beside Diana, dropping the teddy bear

behind her, his face still unseen. He takes the stethoscope and

holds the end to Dianas chest. The sound of a loud, steady heartbeat

is heard. Alison screams at him through her gag.

He pulls away the stethoscope and the heartbeat halts. He reaches

with his right hand and pulls from his belt the gun. Dianas

screams become more desperate, Alisons more frantic, more angry.

He puts the stethoscope back against Dianas chest and moves

the gun up and down in front of her, then bringing it up to her

mothers head. We hear the heartbeat again, doubled in speed.

He pulls away the gun and the stethoscope, tucking the gun back

into his belt. He reaches down behind Diana and picks up the

teddy bear. As he does, we catch a brief glimpse of the lower

half of his face, but not enough for a clear identification yet.

He holds the teddy bear out in front of Diana for a moment then

tucks it in front of her. He pats her on the head and stands

up, moving over to the window. He parts the curtains slightly

and leans forward a bit, and we see his face more clearly. It

is Zep, the orderly from the hospital.

Cut to static, and then a surveillance video view of the exterior

of the Gordon home, of the window where Zep is standing. The

camera zooms in on him and we hear a raspy, male voice speaking.

Cut to a view over Tapps couch of the television with Zep on

video on the screen. Tapp walks over and sits down in front of

the television, his back to us.

Camera pans up to a wall of articles, all about the Jigsaw killings.

It moves quickly and zooms in on each headline we see. Jigsaw

hunt brings D.A. before Judge, Missing Man discovered at Bizarre

Crime Scene screaming is heard then a quick flashback shot of

Paul in his cage, first struggling against the wire then hanging

dead in his cage Killer Preaching Says Top Cop, Psychopath

Teaches Sick Life Lessons, quick shot of Mark going around looking

for the code on the walls, with the sound of his screaming over

the shot, Escape, Victim Survives Maniacs Game quick flashback

footage of Amanda in the interrogation room, then fighting with

her mask, and a shot of Lawrence watching and listening to her

testimony, Doctor Questioned in Case flash of shots of Lawrence

being questioned by the Tapp and Sing and then his Lawyer. It

ends on the flashback shot of Tapp looking back at Lawrence through

the two-way glass after Amanda tells her story, and the shot

slides into a shot of a car pulling up alongside a building.

The car pulls up alongside a building, with Lawrence in the passenger

seat, and Tapp driving. Lawrences awkwardness, Tapps distrust,

and general uncomfortable tension can be easily detected between

them.

Lawrence stands straight up, walks away. Tapp waits a moment,

then drives off.

BAM into static and then the video from Amandas cell. We are

not at Tapps desk in the police station, watching him obsessively

watch the video, staring at the screen, remote control in hand.

As he watches, the camera circles around behind the television

to give us a better view of our obsessed detective.

In the background of the station we hear a couple of detectives

talking, then Sing walks in behind Tapp, over to his own desk.

He turns, watching Tapp watch the screen. Tapp stops and rewinds

the tape.

Tapp fast forwards a bit, hits play.

Tapp watches closely the demonstration of the timer then the

device going off and exploding. Sing watches too, not paying

as close attention. As soon as it explodes, Sing speaks. The

look on his face and the tone of his voice indicates his growing

concern for his partners obsession over this case.

Tapp doesnt look up, resembles Lawrence in the earlier scene

when Alison and Diana came to him to check her room while he

was working on his paper.

Sing chuckles, hits Tapp playfully on the arm, tapp laughs a

bit too, but doesnt look up. Sing remains grinning a bit. But

then Tapp continues and rewinds the video a bit.

Tapp fast forwards.

Sing stops, turns.

Tapp rewinds one second then pauses, holds pencil to the screen

to a grafittied wall on the video.

They listen with the volume up high. Over the static, the sound

of a fire alarm can just barely be heard in the background. They

look at each other. Tapp hits stop.

Sing turns and quickly walks off.

Brief shot of K2K graffiti on the video and then loud static,

which snaps into an exterior nighttime view of an old warehouse

building and a car speeding by. Our view is from inside the car

as it pulls up alongside the building. A police radio can be

heard in the background. So can the sound of a gun being loaded

and cocked.

A shot of inside the factory, various clutter and tables piled

up on one another. No signs of life...yet. A bang from the outside

of the door is heard. A couple more bangs and a shot of the giant,

sliding wooden door as it slides open, and Sing steps in, holding

out his shotgun, ready for anything waiting for them. Cut up

to a staircase, lit by eerie green light, the same as from Pauls

razor wire room, as the detectives make their way up cautiously,

Tapp in front, Sing covering behind them. They come up another

level, one that has been recently used we see as Tapp points

over to a desk with a computer, a radio, and some other miscellaneous

items. Then, right next to the desk, we see the K2K graffiti

from the video.

They continue on, moving into a room separated with a chain link

fence. There is a slightly raised platform, going along part

of the wall, with a few steps leading up on either side. Tapp

goes up the steps. On the raised area are some tables covered

in heavy red cloth. Tapp points to one, reaches down, and pulls

back the covering. He reveals a small diorama of the bathroom

scene where Adam and Lawrence dolls, complete with the body,

dolls representing each of them.

They move onto the next table, and Tapp pulls back the cloth

covering that one, revealing the leering Puppet from Amandas

video. Tapp stares at it wide-eyed. Next to the puppet is a strange,

boar-like mask with long dark hair. The camera pans back so we

have the view of another large object covered in red cloth that

Tapp and Sing had passed by. Tapp leans in closer to look at

the puppet, when suddenly the still-covered form starts to move

and muffled moaning sounds are heard. It startles the detectives.

They both go over and stand on either side of it, taking one

end of the red cloth whipping it off. Underneath is a man tied

to a chair with duct tape over his mouth, held in place by a

manacle around his neck. A contraption on the chair holds two

power drills about six inches from either side of his head, pointed

directly at his temples. His eyes wide, he moans through his

tape at the detectives.

Suddenly, a door is heard clanging open on the other side of

the building, and the detectives spin to face the sound, guns

ready.

Tapp however, having studied this guy for so long, wants to get

a good look at him before hes captured, see him in his element.

As the two argue, the man in the chair continues to protest his

position.

Whoever it is is moving closer, so they quickly cover up the

man and the other things they uncovered. The man in the chair

protests loudly through his gag and struggles as much as he can

in his chair. Sing and Tapp go and hide behind a tarp covering

the entryway to another room while a figure in a black robe lined

in red comes up on the elevator. The elevator stops, and the

figure moves forward, slowly and carefully. He goes up the steps

to the man in the chair. The figures hood is up; we do not see

his face. As he walks, he seems like he might be having a somewhat

difficult time with it.

He reaches and uncovers the man, who begs in muffled tones through

the gag. When the figure speaks, we instantly know it is Jigsaw;

it is the unmistakable voice from the tapes and the video.

Thats when Sing cocks the shotgun and the two detectives move

out of their hiding spot, aiming their weapons at Jigsaw.

Jigsaw slowly raises his hands, starts to turn to face them but

then quickly steps down hard on a red button on the floor, and

the drill trap on Jeffs chair comes to life. He remains with

his back mostly to them, hands still raised.

Jeff in the meantime is struggling in his seat as the drills

come closer.

Jigsaw backs up a bit towards the stairs.

Jigsaw slowly moves down towards him more.

Sing keeps trying various keys. Tapp goes up Jigsaw and grabs

him, pushing him down to his knees. Jigsaw keeps his arms slightly

raised.

Sing finally whips out his gun and shoots each drill, breaking

and stopping them. Tapp glances up at him, briefly distracted

by the gunfire.

Jigsaw RUNS, fast as he can, out of the room. Sing takes a couple

of shots at him and misses. He stops when he reaches Tapp, who

is slumped against the fence/wall and bends down next to him.

Tapp gurgles at him, hands him the shotgun.

Tapp just kind of nods, gurgling and holding his throat. Sing

spins around and then starts chasing Jigsaw through the warehouse,

out of the room and down a flight of stairs. He moves down a

long, misty corridor, gun up, moving quickly but still cautiously.

He takes a right, goes down another flight of stairs then takes

another right, stopping and looking down a short flight of stairs.

Quick cut to Tapp starting to try to get up, holding his throat.

He drags himself along the floor.

Back to Sing, who cocks his shotgun, then moves down the stairs

very cautiously. He takes a left around the corner, finds himself

facing down another corridor, where he sees Jigsaw trying to

get away. He takes aim.

Jigsaw continues moving, so Sing fires. He hits, and Jigsaw goes

down. Sing pauses, waiting to see if he gets back up. Jigsaw

doesnt move, so Sing cocks the gun again and starts to slowly

move forward towards him. Cut to a shot of Tapp as he struggles

to his feet and starts towards the stairs to follow Sing.

Back to Sing, moving further down the hall. He gets about halfway

down it when we see a shot of his feet just at a trip-wire. Over

it are some cobwebs hanging down. He reaches to part them, and

steps forward into the wire. As he steps we see a shot of a shotgun

with wire slowly pulling down on the trigger. Sing looks up,

and the trigger of that gun and six other shotguns pointing down

directly at him fire. Sing is hit, blood splattering against

him and the wall. We see only from his shoulders down. He spasms

for a moment, then falls forward to his knees. Cut to Tapp, who

is making strange vowel sounds, moving down the flight of stairs

just before the hallway where Sing now is.

On his knees, Sing remains upright for a moment, spasming more.

We go to a shot of Jigsaw on the floor. Jigsaw starts moving

and gets himself up to his feet, and starts hobbling further

down the hall. Sings body finally falls forward onto the floor,

spasming still. Tapp continues down the stairs, falling against

the wall a couple of times. We see Jigsaw as he gets to the end

of the hall and starts sliding a large door open.

At that moment, Tapp reaches the bottom of the stairs and turns

into the hallway, collapsing back into a sitting position on

the stairs. Jigsaw hobbles through the door and starts to go

left. Tapp sits up a bit and looks down the hall, where he sees

Sing, who has stopped spasming. His eyes widening, Tapp removes

the hand from his throat and reaches forward towards Sing, his

mouth opening and moving but no sound other than some gasping

coming out. The shot fades to a slow-paced black and white, and

then snaps into a few crime scene photos of Sings body, including

a nice gory one of the top of his head, part of which is now

missing.

At the last photoflash, we cut back to a shot of Tapp presently,

sitting on his couch. The shot shows a good view of the scar

across his neck.

Cut back into regular view in the bathroom, with a shot of Adam

sitting on the tub, holding the photograph of Alison and Diana

just beneath the edge of the inside of the tub, looking down

at it. He ignores Lawrence, flipping the photo over.

There is a pause as something about that statement strikes Adam.

Lawrence stares at him oddly but moves backwards, reaching over

and flipping off the lights. Adam looks around. Lawrence looks

around too, but he sees nothing. He doesnt seem to think this

is going to help any. Then we see on the wall next to him a glow

in the dark X painted on the tiles. He doesnt see it and shrugs,

but Adam spots it.

Lawrence turns and flips the lights back on, both of them wincing

slightly at the sudden transition from dark to bright white,

though not as much as before. Lawrence leans over and picks up

his hacksaw, going over to the tiles where the X is and starts

hitting the tiles with the handle of the hacksaw. He breaks through,

reaching into a small cavity in the wall and pulling out a small

brown box with a hinged lid. He cant believe it. He looks to

Adam, a small grin on his face. He places it on the floor and

sits down behind it.

Adam looks around him, then leans down, looking on the floor

for the key.

Lawrence picks up the key, tries it on the lock. It works. He

takes the lock off, opens the box. He holds up a cell phone,

smiling in relief.

Lawrence takes out and holds up one of two cigarettes. Adam lets

out a joyful laugh.

Jigsaws voiceover reads whats written on the note as Lawrence

opens the paper and reads it, keeping it low in the box where

Adam cant see it.

Cut back to an overhead descending view inside a parking garage.

Cut to a shot within a circular overhead mirror of Lawrences

car pulling up to an abandoned security gate station. He gets

out of the car, shutting the door and going over to a phone on

the wall to dial security to let him out. When he dials, though,

it gives him a busy signal. As it beeps, we cut to another shot

of his car in the mirror. The back door on the passenger side

starts to slowly open. Back to Lawrence, who hangs up the phone,

aggravated, and reaches into his pocket for his cell phone. He

opens it and dials. Back in the mirror, we see something get

out of the car on its hands and knees. It is in a red robe and

has a strangely shaped head with long, tangly dark hair. Lawrence

finishes dialing, holds the phone to his ear but receives the

same beeping tone as the phone in the bathroom, indicating that

he cannot make outgoing calls. Perplexed, he holds up the phone,

trying to get a better signal. Alongside the car, the thing moves

even closer now. It gets up slowly. We see that it is wearing

the strange boar mask previously seen in the flashback of Jigsaws

workshop. It suddenly rushes upon him as hes distracted with

his phone and grabs him.

Cut back to Lawrence sitting on the floor in the bathroom, still

holding the phone.

Adam leans down and reaches into the bathtub, pulls out and holds

up the picture of Alison and Diana.

Lawrence sniffles, shaking, then looks right to the surveillance

camera behind the glass and screams.

Lawrence looks at the body, then down. Hes getting an idea.

He takes a cigarette, glances over at Adam, who still has his

head down in his hands. He dips the end of the cigarette in the

blood, then puts it back in the box. He starts to get up. Adam

looks up, sees him standing.

Lawrence goes to the light, looks at the camera, suddenly flips

off the lights. We see a shot of Zep startling when the lights

go out on the monitor, then we go back to the darkened bathroom.

Zep leans in, trying to hear whats being said, but the static

of the video is too loud. He tries to adjust the sound, but to

no avail. Shot goes back into the bathroom, where Lawrence is

finishing saying something to Adam.

Lawrence makes a show of reaching into the box where the poisoned

cigarette is, but takes the other un-dipped one instead. He throws

it to Adam, who reaches down and picks it up from where it lands.

Lawrence throws the lighter as well. Adam puts the cigarette

between his lips and reaches down, picking up the lighter. He

glances over at Lawrence, who watches him intently. Adam just

shrugs then lights up. He takes a long drag, then exhales in

a sigh of relief and with a smile. He takes another drag then

suddenly freezes, his head jerking and a strange gurgling sound

coming from his throat. His head jerks more then the rest of

his body, his eyes widening. His hand drops the cigarette and

goes to his throat as he turns, still jerky and making a strange,

almost squeaky choking sound in his throat. The sound grows louder

as he falls to his knees, then back a bit, his left arm held

out in front of him dramatically. He falls backwards onto the

floor, twitching some more, still choking. He lets out a long

cough, suddenly stops jerking, and closes his eyes. The death

in its entirety is very, very fake.

Suddenly, we go to a shot of Adam lying there and a loud, electrical

buzzing sound is heard as his body jerks to life and he cries

out. He spasms and jerks around as he is electrocuted, and Lawrence

looks upon him in shock. Finally, the electrocution stops, and

Adam sits up slightly, gasping, eyes wide.

Lawrences reaction is not one of concern; he simply cant believe

that Adam just screwed up the plan.

Adam looks at him in shock, cannot believe Lawrence would think

hed make something like that up.

Back to Adam, still looking dazed. Suddenly, a look of realization

dawns upon his face. The electrocution has jogged his memory.

Flashback to Adam walking up the stairs in his apartment building,

a camera around his neck, smoking a cigarette and listening to

music on his headphones. He walks with an uncaring, slow swagger.

He gets to the top of the stairs and walks down a red-lit hallway

to his apartment. He goes inside, closing the door behind him

then moving into the kitchen area, throwing his keys onto the

table and opening the fridge. The entire apartment is very rundown,

decrepit, dingy and old; truly a shithole apartment as Adam described

it earlier. There is graffiti on the door and walls, the wallpaper

is fading and peeling, the refrigerator is dirty.

Adam opens the fridge and looks inside for a moment. He sighs,

then closes the door. He heads over to his darkroom, closing

the door behind him. The lighting is dark red. He puts the camera

down on the table, taking the strap off from around his neck,

takes off his headphones and cd player, presses stop and puts

them down off to the side. He sighs tiredly and goes over to

a tray where a photo is developing and picks it up with his fingers,

ganging it with a closepin on a hanging line with other photos.

It is a picture of a man wearing sunglasses. The man is in fact

Lawrence. To the left of that one is a shot of Lawrence in the

parking garage with his hand over his eyes.

The camera cuts to a shot of the newest photo through a peephole

in the darkroom door as the camera fades out and back, viewing

the grafittied door of the darkroom before the shot fades to

black, industrial music playing over the shot.

Cut to Adam sleeping in the now pitch-black darkroom, his head

down on the table. He wakes up abruptly, as though he hadnt

meant to fall asleep. He looks around, confused, wondering why

all the lights out. He gives a Great, another problem type of

sigh. He stands and yawns, reaching over for the lightswitch.

He moves it up and down a few times, but nothing happens. Another

aggravated sigh. He reaches down and finds a flashlight on the

counter, presses the on button but it doesnt work. Pissed, he

shakes it hard, trying to get it to come on, but that doesnt

work. He looks at it, scoffs.

Suddenly, he hears something move outside the door, somewhere

in his apartment. On alert, he listens. He looks down and picks

up his camera, slinging it around his neck and holding it out

in front of him. He opens the creaky door into his also pitch-black

apartment. He takes a few steps forward, speaks nervously, but

trying to be brave.

Suddenly, from behind him, an EVIL DOLL LAUGH is heard. He startles,

spinning around.

He hears the sound of movement again, coming from just behind

him in a closet. He goes on alert again, holding up the baseball

bat and the camera.

Suddenly, the cell phone rings. Lawrence looks down at it in

slight surprise. Adam snaps out of his daze to look at it as

well. Lawrence glances over at Adam and then carefully reaches

down, picks it up and answers it. The scene will cut back and

forth to Diana and Alison in the room and Lawrence on the phone

for the duration of the conversation.

Zep pushes some of Alisons hair behind her ear with the barrel

of the gun.

Zep puts the phone up to Alisons ear.

Brief flashback shot of Lawrence in the parking garage, pausing

and covering his eyes for a moment when the camera flashed. We

see a shot of Adam holding the camera and taking the shot from

around a corner, ducking back behind the column. Lawrence looks

up at the flash, startled.

Cut back to the bathroom. Adam stands up, his stance and body

language accusing of Lawrence. He speaks fiercely, disgusted

with Lawrences two-faced bullshit.

Cut to a flashback, the hotel room. Carla, the pretty Asian girl

from the hospital, is inside the room, now in a black lacy top

and a gray/blue skirt, waiting for him. She opens the door, taking

a step back as he enters. He looks unsure of the whole situation,

a changed attitude this evening from all the others. He shuts

the door behind him, and Carla smiles at him. Lawrences tone

when he speaks is unhappy. Not enraged, just somewhat disapproving.

Suddenly, the hotel room phone rings. Carla and Lawrence both

look at it, unsure, startled. Carla looks to Lawrence.

The voice on the other end is male, slightly raspy. It is unidentifiable;

it could be either Tapp or Zep, or someone else. It is very accusing.

Lawrence hangs up the phone, turns and moves to the door. Carla

moves with him, watching, waiting for him to say who it was.

Cut to the underground parking lot, the same shot as where Adam

took Lawrences picture. He walks along, pauses to wince and

cover his eyes, then the flash. He looks up startled.

The shot cuts back to Lawrence leaning forward against the wall

in his corner, hand against a pipe. He slowly looks up at Adam,

thinking of something.

Lawrence is leaning against the wall facing away from Adam. At

hearing Adams description, he slowly moves back, turns around

to face Adam.

Lawrence spins out of his corner, screaming in rage.

A pause, then Lawrence collapses onto the floor. Hes lost the

last of any strength, level headedness or control he had before.

Cut to the Gordons Bedroom. Zep puts Alisons gag back on her,

then leaves the room. Alison moves her head around to loosen

the gag then spits it out. She tries to fight her sobs as she

speaks softly to Diana.

Cut back to Adam in the bathroom, looking up slightly from his

position. He glances back down at the photographs on the floor,

notices something odd about one of them. He furrows his brow

and gets down on his hands and knees, reaching over and picking

it up, leaning back and looking at it, studying it. Camera cuts

to a shot of Lawrence through the black and white surveillance

camera, sitting on the floor. Adams next line is a voice over

over this shot.

Suddenly the shot cuts to Adam, who looks up at the clock with

a very worried look. He points up to it.

Alison continues to untie her. Cut to Zep, getting up from his

chair, turning to go into the bedroom. Alison hears him moving

near, sees his form through the frosted glass doors. She quickly

replaces Dianas gag and then her own, and resumes her position

with her hands behind her back just as the doors open and Zep

steps into the room. He looks down at them, raises his eyebrows

slightly. He seems to have gotten himself together, ready to

just do what has to be done. He takes the gun from his belt and

leans down next to Alison. He looks at her with wide eyes, shakes

his head sadly. He speaks calmly.

Quick cut to the bathroom, where Lawrence is still looking at

the slightly crumpled picture of Zep in the window. The phone

rings, startling them both. Lawrence quickly answers it.

Cut into the bedroom.

Quickly, she grabs Zeps gun and pushes him hard over to her

left. He is taken by surprise and goes down easily.

Alison rips the gun right from his hand, quickly backs up an

stands. She keeps the gun aimed right at Zep. He sits up slightly,

trying to slowly get up, but she keeps the gun fiercely aimed

at him, keeping him there. His eyes are wide, likely his one

thought right now is Fuck.

Alison turns to look at Diana when she calls her, and Zep seizes

the moment. He leaps up and grabs the gun from her hand, and

they start struggling with it. Diana starts screaming. Lawrence,

on his end, hears the screaming and sounds of a struggle. In

wrestling for the gun a shot is let off, and Diana continues

to scream.

Cut to a shot of static on Tapps TV set, then Tapp waking up

to the sound of gunfire. He quickly looks over to the window.

Back to Zep and Alison, who are still fighting for the gun. Zep

manages to spin her around and into a leaning forward position,

but she still holds on tight. Another shot goes off. Cut to a

shot of Tapp, who hears it, then looks at the TV. He sees the

flash from the window on the television. He picks up his handgun

and loads it quickly, gets up and heads out. Back in the apartment,

we see Diana cowering, still tied, holding her teddy bear. Zep

gets behind Diana, tries to grab her but she keeps her arms and

the gun upwards. Another shot is fired off.

The shot cuts back into the bedroom.

The struggle moves over and into the dresser. Zep gets the gun

in his right hand and wraps his left arm around Alison, who quickly

pulls open and takes out of the top drawer a pair of scissors.

She spins around and with a scream stabs Zep in his left leg.

He screams in pain and goes down, falling onto his side, clutching

his leg by a wooden column, moaning in pain. Alison quickly goes

over and finishes untying Diana. Cut to the Main Hall of the

residence, where we see Tapp enter and move down the hall with

his gun ready. He moves cautiously but quickly. He sees Zep on

the floor squirming around and aims at him, screaming.

Zep turns and sees him, fires a shot in his direction but doesnt

hit. Tapp fires back and skims the top of Zeps head. Zep clutches

the surface wound, fires back. Cut back to Lawrence on the phone,

hearing only his daughter screaming and gunshots. He sobs, collapsing

forward onto the floor, crying out Oh no. Adam watches him, can

only imagine what hes hearing.

Back to the bedroom, Tapp stands next to another wooden column

and fires at Zep again, missing. Alison finishes untying Diana

and the book from the room. Zep fires at Tapp again and misses.

Tapp fires back, but his gun jams. Zep sees Alison and Diana

run from the room, and his attention goes to them once more.

Zep gets up off the floor more, but just then Tapp gives up on

his gun and charges at Zep, screaming. He tackles Zep, knocking

him flat on his back. Zep pushes his way up but Tapp grabs him

from behind, pulling him towards him. Cut back to Lawrence, still

on the floor, sobbing with the phone clutched in his hand.

Back to Tapp and Zep, who get up to their feet. Zep grabs a vase

on the floor and turns, smashing it over Tapps head. The blow

stuns Tapp and sends him down. Zep kneels down and picks up his

gun, then gets back up and starts hobbling after Alison and Diana.

He reaches the living room, but they are no where to be seen.

Back to Lawrence crying on the floor of the bathroom. Hes just

a complete wreck, making low moaning sounds. Suddenly, there

is a loud buzzing sound his body is jerked up and he is flung

onto his back as he is electrocuted. Adams eyes widen and he

starts to panic.

Cut back to the bathroom. Adam looks around him, not sure what

to do, panicking. Lawrence cant be dead, he cant be alone in

here. He cant handle this alone. He needs his calm, collected

Doctor, no matter how badly Lawrence has treated him.

Lawrence leans over and grabs his chain, the source of the electrocution.

Suddenly, he snaps.

Back in the bathroom, Lawrence continues to grunt and struggle

with his chain. Suddenly the phone rings and he turns. He quickly

moves to get it, but it is out of reach. He lays flat on the

floor, just a foot away from it, trying desperately to grab it.

In the hallway, Tapp enters, keeping his gun aimed out in front

of him. He looks down the hallway, sees nothing. Cut to Zep climbing

down a ladder into another level, grunting in pain. Tapp hears

him and follows the sound down the hall.

In the bathroom, the phone keeps ringing. Lawrence grabs the

hinged box, turns it upside down and tries to catch the phone

with it. He cannot reach, and starts to cry loudly again. He

tosses the box away, crying/screaming as he tries to reach the

box with his arms. Adam watches with a terrified look, not knowing

what to do.

Zep reaches the bottom of the ladder, leaning against it, moaning

from the pain of his leg. He hears Tapp above him, hobbles off

further down the hallway. Tapp climbs down the ladder, moving

in the same direction as Zep. As Tapp can move faster than Zep,

he rounds the corner and catches Zep hobbling down the hallway.

Zep turns and sees him, firing a few shots but missing. Tapp

ducks behind a large stone column jutting out of the wall. He

leans out and fires at Zep. Zep falls back slightly but remains

standing. If he got hit, it isnt clear where. Zep then turns

and quickly hobbles further down the hall.

Cut back to Lawrence still crying and trying to get the phone

as it keeps ringing.

Cut to Zep hobbling down the hall. Tapp is there running after

him. Zep turns a corner, and Tapp runs to try to keep up.

Back in the bathroom, Lawrence continues to freak out as he mentally

breaks down, clutching the chain and screaming more.

Lawrence sits up, stops pulling at his chain but continues screaming.

He starts to unbutton his blue button-down shirt. That is too

slow, however, so he starts to rip it open.

Lawrence gets his shirt off, down to a plain white tee shirt

underneath. He starts to wrap one end around his manacled foot

and ties it off. Adam realizes what he is preparing to do, completely

loses it and freaks out, screaming.

Lawrence holds the other end of the shirt in his mouth, biting

it for a brace. The look in his eyes is one of complete madness

and desperation. He takes up the hacksaw in his right hand, puts

it against his ankle and starts to saw into his foot while Adam

begins to scream in complete horror. Lawrence screams through

the cloth between his teeth. The blood squirts up onto Lawrences

shirt and neck. Adam collapses to the floor in his corner, screaming

and wincing.

Back to Zep rounding another corner in the hallway. He moves

into an old break room and Tapp runs in after him, finally catching

up. Tapp tackles him, tripping him backwards and causing Zep

to hit his head against and old mini-refrigerator. Tapp grabs

him and brings him up, throwing him hard against the stone wall.

Zep falls down to his side. Tapp grabs him up and throws him

forward against a cage wall.

Back to Lawrence, still sawing away, blood on his face, neck

and shirt.

Back to Tapp pummeling Zep from behind in the back. A look of

twisted glee is upon Tapps face as he hits Zep. Zep falls to

the floor, gun beside him. He looks like he just wants to curl

up and die. Tapp goes down for the gun but Zep reacts, grabbing

it. Tapp grabs his hand, and Zep pushes himself up into a standing

position, the wall in front of him, Tapp pushing up behind him,

trying to take the gun.

Back in the bathroom, Adam is on his hands and knees, screaming

and crying as he begs Lawrence to stop. Lawrence does stop, sits

up and tosses the saw of to the side. Adam collapses forward

a bit.

Back to Zep and Tapp, who continue struggling from the gun. Zep

squeezes his way down, groaning as he suddenly drops down between

Tapp and the wall, his gun aimed up at Tapp. He pulls the trigger

and the shot hits Tapp in the chest, a loud surprise to the former

detective.

Back in the bathroom, Lawrence crawls along the floor, moaning.

He finds and picks up the single bullet from his envelope, looks

at it. Adam watches him in terror.

Cut back to a close up of the bloody hole in Tapps chest. Tapp

remains standing a moment, in shock, gasping, then falls down

backwards onto the floor. Zep is still on his knees, holding

the gun up at a diagonal. Tapps eyes flutter, then finally close.

Zep turns and gets up, limping in pain out of the room and down

another hall.

Back in the bathroom, Lawrence reaches the body. He takes the

gun, opens the chamber.

Lawrence collapses, sobbing. Then he sits up a bit, turning to

the surveillance camera and screaming.

Cut to the Gordons neighbors living room. Alison paces back

and forth, holding a cell phone to her ear. Two neighbors sit

off to the side on a couch with Diana.

Alison goes and sits on the couch. Diana comes up to her, and

Alison embraces her daughter.

Cut back to the bathroom, with a shot of the sliding door. The

sound of a lock being undone and a bang is heard. Lawrence pushes

himself up into a kneeling position, a look of shock on his face.

The door slides open and there stands Zep, green mist behind

him in the hallway. Lawrence turns and sees him. Zeps eyes dart

around the room, seeming to say What the fuck happened in here?

He sees Lawrence on the floor, and an eager look comes into his

eyes. He walks in, and Lawrence starts to yell at him.

Zep goes over to Adam, pushing his side with his foot a couple

of times, but to no reaction. He then looks to Lawrence and aims

his gun at him, shaking his head.

Zep is about to pull the trigger when suddenly Adam comes to

and grabs his ankle, pulling him down. The back of Zeps head

hits the floor hard. Adam pulls him towards him, struggles to

get the gun from Zeps hand, screaming. The gun goes off once

off to the side. Adam moves Zeps arm back and forth, and it

goes off again. Finally, Adam slams Zeps arm down and gets the

gun away from him, tossing it away. He slugs Zep hard across

the face, stunning him. Lawrence starts crawling towards them.

Screaming like a madman, Adam sits up and grabs the toilet seat

lid from the toilet, and slams it down onto Zeps head as hard

as he can. He repeats this seven times before the lid snaps in

half. Lawrence reaches the two and reaches up for Adams arm

as Adam brings the broken lid down again. Lawrence grabs his

arm and Adam drops the lid, falling forward a bit and clutching

his shoulder wound with his free hand, crying hard. Lawrence

moves in, touching his head to Adams.

Lawrence nods, pulling away from him and starts to crawl off.

Adam reaches for him as he turns himself around and away.

Lawrence makes it out the door, and starts dragging himself down

the hall. Adam is now alone in the room with two corpses. Adam

looks to the door one more time then turns to Zeps body. He

pulls himself on top of him, wincing at his shoulder pain.

He starts going through Zeps pockets, patting him down. He finds

Zeps wallet, opens it and feels through it; there s nothing

of value to him right now. He tosses it down. He continues feeling

for something, suddenly feels something in Zerps coat pocket.

His eyes widen as he reaches in, wincing from the pain in his

shoulder. He pulls out a tape recorder. He stares at it, his

eyes and mouth starting to widen. He glances down at Zep, then

at the tape recorder. Sitting up a bit more, he presses play.

It is Jigsaws voice.

Zeps voiceover of Hes a very interesting person, with a shot

of John in his hospital bed with Dr. Gordon and the med students.

His name is John. Shot of Lawrence pointing at the chart, He

has an inoperable frontal lobe tumor. Close up shot of John in

his bed, eyes flickering open slightly.

Shot of Tapp in the workshop, holding a gun to Johns head. Sick

from the disease eating away at me inside. Shot of the detectives

at Pauls cage, shot of the jigsaw puzzle piece wound on Paul,

Kerry saying Sounds like our friend Jigsaw.

Frontal shot of John in his robe in the workshop with the detectives,

his arms raised, his face clearly visible. Cut to Kerry at the

peephole in Marks room, saying Looks like he likes to book himself

a front row seat to his own sick little games, with overlapping

footage of John on the floor in the bathroom, eyes open slightly,

then a shot of the pig creature crawling out of Lawrences car.

Back to the shot of Adam staring at him, shocked. Suddenly, Adam

looks down, grabs Zeps gun and aims for John. But before he

can pull the trigger John holds out the remote for the electricity

and starts to electrocute Adam, who starts jerking around and

drops the gun. As he spasms, a very, very fast montage of images

from the entire film from beginning to the end, starting with

a shot of Adam being electrocuted after his fake death, then

Lawrence, then going back to the beginning, all the way up and

ending with Adam stretched out on top of Zep, spasming still

from the electrocution. Suddenly the electricity stops and he

gasps, raspy loud breathing. John turns away, starts towards

the door. Adam can only watch after him.

Adam SCREAMS as loud as he can in terror and despair as John

pauses for a moment with the door halfway shut, and says

John slams the door shut the rest of the way, and we are left

in darkness with the sound of Adam screaming No! Dont!!! over

and over and crying. The screams fade out, and is replaced by

the ending titles and instrumental music.

THE END

