We're tight on the can as Valerie lifts the paraphernalia to

her mouth and takes a hit, a small grimace etched across her

lips. She gestures with her hand offering Chris some.

CLOSE ON SHIFTY.

THE CAMERA PANS TO VAL- SHE LOOKS ANAESTHETIZED - BACK TO

SHIFTY...

Shifty nods at Chris for them both to leave. The thudding

bass echoes out as they exit the flat. Chris looks slightly

unsettled by what he's seen.

EXT. OUTSIDE VALERIE'S FLAT. DAY

Shifty shuts the door to Valerie's behind him. They go to

walk off when suddenly Shifty stops dead in his tracks. He

pauses for a while, and then shouts to Chris who has carried

on walking.

Chris turns to see Shifty pulling up the sleeve on his

jacket. Shifty reaches through the letterbox and manages to

unhook the latch. The door swings slowly open, the drum 'n'

bass booming out.

INT. OTIS' FLAT / FRONTROOM. DAY

Shifty enters. The CAMERA follows. We're introduced to a dark

hallway, clothes, magazines and CD's litter the floor. Shifty

peers into one of the bedrooms leading off from the hallway -

a mattress with no sheets. Shifty carries on down the

hallway. Reaching a door, he slowly pushes it open, to reveal

a grotty front room. On the TV a violent movie scene plays

out, the sound turned down. A wiry looking 18 year old,

Otis, sits on the sofa rolling a spliff, absorbed by the

films images. A chavvy-looking bird sits to his left. Shifty,

cool as a cucumber, rolls into the front room, straight up to

the stereo, and turns it off. The young kid sits there, just

staring, a spliff held in his two hands, totally flummoxed.

Shifty stares him out.

Blair laughs.

Chris' laugh is met by silence.

Blair nods.

Trevor's van pulls up behind Malik tooting his horn - Malik

almost defecates his jeans - Trevor winds down the window.

Trevor steps out.

A BEAT.

Blair and Chris laugh.

Shifty sits back in his chair, thinking.

They're driving. Trevor almost fanatical, eyes searching -

Malik in the back of the car, looking anxious, offering

directions.

Trevor scours the streets, Malik in the back. The house tune

thumping out.

Blair sniffs up a line of coke and offers some to Shifty and

Chris who decline. The mellow tunes plays out. Chris passes

the spliff to Blair who takes a deep drag. Shifty sits back

and looks at the clock on the wall. It reads 18:45. He thinks

for a moment. He looks at the lines of coke lined up on

Blair's table. He looks back at the clock. 18:46. Chris is

watching Shifty.

Shifty looks at Chris straight in the eyes.

A BEAT.

Shifty looks at Chris.

A BEAT.

Rez stands in the hallway of his parents house, we can see

Shifty's parents in the kitchen chatting to an elderly

gentleman in a suit. Rez looks at his phone, it reads: Shafiq

Mobile. He looks at it for a while. Then answers.

Shifty and Chris walk.

Rez puts down the phone. He stands there for a while,

thinking, then walks into the kitchen to join his parents and

their guest.

Silence as Trevor and Malik drive. Suddenly Trevor notices

Shifty and Chris walking down a grass verge, making their way

beneath the underpass.

He brings the van to a halt at the side of the street. He

exits the van, leaving Malik sitting in the back passenger

seat slightly non-plussed.

Shifty and Chris walk through the tunnel, from the far end we

see the shadow of a heavyset man approaching. Shifty and

Chris walk unfazed. Shifty recognises the guy.

Trevor, appearing from the gloom, walks directly towards

Shifty.

He stops about a foot away from Shifty. Too close for

comfort. Shifty takes a step back.

Trevor assesses Chris.

Trevor's face drops.

Trevor's eyes are bulging, face crimson with rage, his knife

nestling at the tip of Shifty's Adams apple.

Shifty does what Trevor says.

At that moment, Trevor lowers his knife, Shifty takes heed

and grabs him, swinging him around and pushinhg his palm into

Trevor's face. They fall into a messy clinch, but their now

facing the opposite way. Chris and Shifty turn and sprint as

fast as possible. Trevor falls to his knees scrambling for

the drugs.

Jasmine is in the front room ironing. In front of her she has

two suit cases laid out perfectly. She keeps and eye on the

kids who are still painting. She presses one of Trevor's

shirts perfectly.

EXT. OLD SPORTS CENTRE. DAY

Shifty and Chris come to rest behind a gathering of bushes.

Their lungs on fire as they grab for air. Shifty looks down

at his top and realises he's bleeding.

Chris reaches to help him, but Shifty swats away his hand.

Shifty turns and steams off leaving Chris seething.

INT. TREVOR'S VAN. DAY

Trevor gets back in the van, wiping the blood from his nose

with the sleeve of his shirt and breathing heavily. He's

counting the money, looking in the bag of drugs - PAY DIRT.

He's a bundle of nervous energy.

Trevor spins round in his seat.

Trevor starts to laugh; it's a nervous display, almost

relief.

A BEAT.

Malik considers, puts his hand in the bag and pulls out a

camcorder he nicked earlier with a bunch of tapes.

INT. SHIFTY'S PARENTS HOUSE. DUSK

In a respectable dining room sit Shifty's parents and Mr.

Ahmed. Their silence is awkward as they sit waiting for

Shifty. Shifty's mum pours Mr. Ahmed some tea.

INT. TREVOR'S VAN. DUSK

Trevor takes out a wrap, places a huge pile on the end of a

credit card and tries to snort the lot in one go. His broken

nose proves difficult, blocked by clotted blood, so he eats

the remainder.

INT. SHIFTY'S PARENT HOUSE / KITCHEN. NIGHT

Rez sits on a stool drinking a cup of tea, he tries to ring

Shifty but gets no answer. Rez's face shows frustration.

EXT/INT. REZ'S HOUSE. NIGHT

Shifty walks down the path and opens the front door, calling

out.

The house is empty.

INT. REZ'S HOUSE / SHIFTY'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

Shifty's on the phone.

Shifty's punching his bedroom door yelling out.

INT. SHIFTY'S PARENTS HOUSE. NIGHT

Shifty's mum shuts the door as Mr. Ahmed leaves. She turns

back into the hallway and suddenly begins to cry. Shifty's

dad walks in and holds her tight, Rez holds back, not knowing

what to do.

Five heavy looking bastards walk out of a house and towards a

serious looking black range rover. One of them opens the boot

and they throw in baseball bats, a crowbar, masking tape.

Chris sits on a wall the other side of the road, a carrier

bag full of beer. He sits, drinking, just staring at the

house, the music pumping from within. He watches as people

arrive. He looks about. He's anxious, upset, he doesn't want

to do this on his own.

Trevor unlocks the door and walks into the house, his nose

swollen, face sullen, guilty. We follow as he walks toward

the front room where we see suit cases placed over the floor

as Jasmine busies herself packing. She doesn't look at

Trevor, she's too angry with him.

She turns to look at him.

The five heavies sit in the car, heavy music playing out, the

motorway lights flashing past.

Trevor drops his head.

Jasmine, still in a bit of a state, her eyes reddened from

tears, sits sorting stuff out in the front room. She picks up

the carrier bag that Trevor brought home with him and looks

inside, she pulls out the camera and tapes.

Trevor sits at the garden table smoking a fag. Jasmine walks

outside.

Trevor looks up.

He walks past her back into the house and kisses her cheek

she flinches slightly, She stands there for a second soaking

it in.

Chris sits on the wall, he downs his beer, straightens

himself up, and walks towards the house. A voice calls out.

Chris turns to see Shifty approaching. They stand there for a

moment. Neither one saying anything.

Chris looks down.

Chris nods.

A BEAT.

Shifty nods with acceptance, but Chris smiles.

Shifty shakes is head.

They walk off. Chris throws Shifty a light punch.

Quietly Trevor sniffs up a corner of coke. He carefully opens

the door to make sure Jasmine's not nearby. He exits and we

follow him into the front room where Jasmine sits with the

Camcorder. She aims it at Trevor and presses record. Jasmine

peers into the Lens.

INT. COUNCIL ESTATE / HALLWAY. NIGHT

Shifty and Chris approach a rundown council flat. The door is

shabby, black bin liners decorate the floor. Shifty knocks.

They stand for a moment when suddenly the door creaks open to

reveal Loretta peaking through.

She watches them for a moment then shuts the door. Shifty

looks at Chris. They stand for a moment when Glen opens the

door.

Glen just looks at him.

Glen opens the door. They both walk into the flat. Glen stops

shifty and points for him to go into the bedroom.

Chris walks into the front room where he sees Lenny and

Loretta playing Connect 4.

He looks at Lenny.

Lenny looks slowly up.

Chris perches himself on the edge of a dusty old armchair. He

looks at Loretta.

She smiles at him.

He smiles nervously.

Shifty holds the phone to Glen's face.

Glen knocks down Shifty's arm.

Chris watches Loretta and Glen play connect 4.

Shifty stays quiet.

Shifty stares at Glen, seething.

Lenny and Loretta, having ditched the connect 4, are chasing

the dragon from a piece of tin foil. Chris looks totally

uneasy, the situation is making him uncomfortable.

A BEAT. Glen looks a little shocked by Shifty's revelation.

There's a knock at the door. Shifty hesitates, then answers

it.

Shifty goes to walk out with Chris. Glen follows them into

the corridor.

Shifty and Chris carry on walking out.

Suddenly, with out hesitation Chris grabs Glen by his tee

shirt and slams his forehead into Glens nose. It breaks in a

clean crack, blood spurting out. Glen doubles over, holding

his face. Chris smashes his fist into the back of Glens head,

Glen goes down on his knees. Chris is kicking him. Shifty

comes in and pulls him away, laying in a few boots himself.

Glen stands up.

INT/EXT RANGE ROVER. MOTORWAY. NIGHT

The black Ranger Rover soars along the motorway.

Shifty and Chris cross a field, trudging through the ankle

length grass. They reach a hedge. Shifty reaches into the

bushes and starts rummaging around. He pulls out a black bin

liner containing something heavy. He unwraps one bin liner to

reveal another which has been tied with elastic. He undoes

another black bin liner until finally he's left with just a

leather sports bag.

Through the front windscreen we see a sign indicating a

turnoff for Dudlowe New town. The jeep veers, making the exit

just in time.

Chris and Shifty make their way through the town. Shifty's

walking fast, dictating the pace.

A BEAT.

Silence. They carry on walking, together, side by side.

Silhouetted by the night sky, Shifty and Chris sit on dining

chairs, before the front window, lights off, waiting.

The Range Rover creeps along the streets of Dudlowe.

A BEAT.

A BEAT.

A BEAT.

A BEAT.

Shifty leans forward and opens the leather sports bag. He

pulls out a .38 six shot revolver and a hand full of bullets.

He starts loading the gun. Chris stands up.

Shifty gestures for him to be quiet, and points upstairs to

his bother.

A BEAT.

Chris sits down. Shifty reaches in the bag and hands him a

knuckle duster. Chris looks at it.

The Range Rover pulls into a turning.

They sit there, just waiting.

A moment of silence.

A BEAT.

Shifty nods. He's feeling the pain.

Silence. Chris laughs.

Chris' laughter increases.

They're both starting to laugh.

They're both cracking up.

They're both laughing, Shifty motions for them to quieten

down in case they wake Rez.

The Range Rover turns off it's lights. The guys just sit

there waiting.

Chris is falling asleep, head drooping. Shifty's trying to

stay awake, one eye open, struggling, but he's too tired.

Both their heads are drooped, they're dead to the world.

The Range Rover creeps along with its lights off.

Shifty jolts as if he's heard something, going for the gun in

his jacket. He looks around... nothing there.

The five heavies get out of the jeep. Pulling on balaclava's,

bats, knives, guns at the ready.

Shifty and Chris are silhouetted against the night sky.

The five heavies approach the house.

A shadow streaks across the front window but Shifty and Chris

are asleep.

The five heavies assemble outside the door. One of them kicks

the front door with an almighty crash.

Shifty awakes with a jolt to see broad day light streaming in

through the windows of the house.

Shifty steps out the front door to look about. It's a nice

day. He looks up and down the street, nothing. He goes to

walk back in the house when suddenly his eye catches

something on the floor. He reaches down and picks up a large

jiffy envelope that's been left leaning against the bin

cupboard. Scribed across the front is: SHIFTY

Shifty rips open the Jiffy envelope. He pulls out a

Camcorder, a Polaroid falls to the floor, face down. Shifty

looks at both. His face displays concern.

Shifty's packing, fast. Loading stuff into a sports bag, tee

shirts, jeans, socks.

Shifty pulls out a large bundle of money that he's been

saving.

Shifty places an envelope on the table. REZ scribed across

the front.

Shifty walks into see Chris sitting up on the sofa. He throws

Chris' bag at him. He looks at his bag. At Shifty's bag slung

over his shoulder.

Shifty stands at the river side. Chris beyond, watching.

Shifty reaches into his jacket and pulls out the .38

revolver. He throws it into the river.

He takes Shifty's phone and chucks into the river.

Shifty and Chris sit in silence. The bus pulls up.

The bus pulls away. Chris settles back, and offers Shifty one

of his head phones to share. Shifty takes it and sits back,

looking out the window. The track we heard at the beginning

of the film begins to play: Noel McKoy's "Brighter Day". It

plays softly over the following scenes.

Shifty stands, staring at the camcorder in his hand, and the

Polaroid, face down on the floor.

Loretta awakes from a drug inflicted sleep and sits up. She

looks around. No one.

Shifty leans down to pick up the Polaroid.

Loretta walks towards the bedroom, she reaches for the

handle.

We see the same scene from the night before. But from a lower

angle to see Shifty holding his mobile phone by his side.

CLOSE ON SCREEN: IT SHOWS AN OPEN LINE TO MAGNUS' MOBILE

CLOSE ON: PHONE HELD TO A MANS EAR - MAGNUS WE PRESUME

LISTENING TO THE CONVERSATION.

Shifty turns over the Polaroid.

Loretta opens the door to reveal Glen taped to a chair and

beaten to death.

Shifty turns over the Polaroid to see a picture of Glen,

taped to the chair and beaten to death.

Shifty opens the LCD on the Camcorder and presses play and

begins to watch.

CAMCORDER: Jasmine peers into the lens. She then turns the

camera and follows Trevor who plants himself on the other

settee, he looks uneasy.

There is a colossal banging sound.

Trevor's up on his feet. The banging becomes a crash as

something gives way.

Three heavyset men in balaclava's charge into the front room.

Jasmine screams, dropping the camera on its side yet still

giving a viewpoint on events. Three men are on Trevor, he's

receiving a serious beating.

THE MUSIC ON THE SOUND TRACK BEGINS TO GET LOUDER.

A man grabs Jasmine by the hair and drags her to the middle

of the room, she attempts to fight back, feisty as ever. This

is bedlam. Suddenly someone rushes in from the left and lays

a vicious right hook to Trevor's head. He goes down like a

lead weight. Jasmine's crying, fear washing over her. A child

cries out from upstairs.

Two hooded men drag Jasmine off to another room. She's

fighting back clawing at them. Trevor's face is pressed

against the cold lino flooring. Someone has grabbed the

camera and angles it on Trevor's bloodied features. Congealed

blood envelopes his eyes and nose cavities.

A hand moves into shot and grabs hold of his face, squeezing

his cheeks so he looks sadly comic. Trevor's eyes flicker

open.

Trevor fails to comply. The hand slaps him hard and grabs his

face again.

Trevor complies.

Trevor begins to weep - a painful sight.

The voice echoes out.

Rez' opens the envelope on the side and pulls out a mass of

money left for him by Shifty.

Loretta puts on her jacket and walks out of the flat.

Shifty sits looking out the window, Dudlowe passing him by as

he exits the town. He nestles back into his chair and closes

his eyes. He and Chris seated next to one another. Shoulder

to shoulder.

The music rises.

CUT TO BLACK.

