<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

SPARE ME

1     BLACK						    1

The screen is black. Thunder rumbles.

A black bowling ball pulls away from the lens. The ball is in

the hands of THEO SKINNER, an intense, handsome 28 year old

man with sideburns dressed in worn bowling attire.

He holds the ball in front of him, wristbrace on, his face a

study in concentration.

CREDITS

2     EXT. BRIDGE - DAY				     2

An empty causeway spans a bay somewhere along the south shore

of Long Island. The sky is overcast. SHEILA, a woman in her

late twenties, wearing a full length heliotrope pleather coat

over a waitress outfit, kneels in the middle of the road. A

souped-up Vespa motor scooter stands nearby.

KEN AND BARBIE

Sheila holds a Bridal Barbie and Ken doll set. She sets them

down on the road, pulls out a can of lighter fluid and soaks

the dolls. She pulls out a bowling pin-shaped lighter and

torches the nuptial tableau.

3     INT. THEO'S CAR				       3

Theo drives his ratty old American car along a highway. The

car has Ohio plates. He sucks coffee from a 7-Eleven "Big-

Swig" cup and examines a map. A yellow plastic "Bowler on

Board" sign is stuck to a side window. Theo's music PLAYS.

His eyes nod off, then snap awake.

4     NIGHTMARE						4

The screen is black, except for three circles in the middle

of the screen. The light shining through them is snuffed out

by three large pink objects. There is a loud POP, like a

thumb being pulled out of a tight hole.

5     EXT. BRIDGE					 5

Theo's sedan blasts past the camera down the empty road.

6     PIN RESET MACHINERY				   6

An American Machine and Foundry pin reset machine performs

its functions like a mechanical ballet as the camera follows

a bowling ball through its journey. The "Spare Me!" theme

MUSIC (similar to "Balboa Blue" by the Marketts) swells.

TITLE: SPARE ME! appears on the bowling ball. Pins tumble

across the back plate, are loaded into the pin conveyor,

lifted up to the crown feeder, distributed into the rotating

carousel, and then set down in perfect formation upon the

polished bowling alley.

BURN-IN PRINCIPAL PLAYER TITLES. Titles appear on the pins.

The ball trundles along the return trough straight into the

lens.

BLACK

7     INT. 7-ELEVEN - DAY				   7

A muzak cover of 'Broke, Busted, and Disgusted' PLAYS in the

background as Theo gingerly pulls a hot taco out of the

microwave oven. ALFIE, the rickety old man who runs the

store, shuffles up to the self-serve island and begins wiping

it down. Theo pokes at the taco with a spork as steam rises.

He pulls a disgusted grimace. Alfie pours himself a cup of

coffee and then attempts to open a tiny container of half &

half. Because his hands are shaking so much, the cream goes

everywhere but into the coffee.

Alfie looks at Theo's bowling shoe attired feet.

Theo's hand starts shaking uncontrollably. He puts down the

cream.

Alfie presses a matchbook into Theo's hand and then trundles

off. Theo looks down at the matchbook; it reads "Bowl for

health, enjoy yourself. Babylon Lanes."

8     EXT. BABYLON LANES - TWILIGHT			   8

Theo pulls into the empty parking lot of Babylon Lanes beside

a cheap looking American sedan.

9     INT. BABYLON LANES				    9

Theo walks into an empty run-down forty lane bowling alley

carrying his ball bag. It is dark. The fluorescent lights

switch on and the pin re-set machines whirr into action. SID

and BREEZE, two shady looking guys in a basement-sale suits

walk up lane dividers towards Theo.

Sid and Breeze look sideways at each other.

A lady dwarf walks by.

Tina opens a door and goes down some stairs.

Breeze sniggers into his hand

Breeze grabs Theo's bag.

Sid sidles around behind Theo who tries to keep him in sight.

Breeze unzips the bag and pulls the ball out. Theo's temper

is rising, he breathes deeply. He is obviously making a

Herculean effort to keep himself in check.

With lightning speed Theo's hand shoots out and grabs the

middle fingers on Sid's right hand. Sid howls in agony.

Breeze, astonished, drops Theo's ball into the bag. Sid

cringes in front of Theo.

Theo turns and walks out.

10     EXT. WOODS - NIGHT				   10

JUNIOR, a dumpy man in his late thirties with a rat tail, bad

skin and wearing a white straitjacket and fluorescent orange

pants, runs desperately through dark woods. Bloodhounds BARK

in the distance.

11     EXT. ROAD - NIGHT				    11

Theo drives over the draw-bridge and past the Peter Pan Diner

with its huge neon sign.

12     EXT. DEAD END STREET				 12

Theo's car pulls up in front of a modest suburban house. A

rooftop weather vane in the shape of a bowler CREAKS

ominously in the wind.

13     EXT. BUZZ'S HOUSE				    13

Theo rings the doorbell. The porch light comes on, and

MILLIE, a fifty-five year-old woman dressed for a night on

the town in Reno, but with fuzzy slippers and a hairnet,

opens the door. A miniscule neurotic poodle leaps at Theo's

bowling ball bag, YAPPING and snapping at it.

14     INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM			 14

Millie and Theo, with Zeus hot on his trail, enter the room.

BUZZ FAZELI, a sixty-five year-old man shaped a lot like a

compressed bowling pin, slouches in a recliner. The room is

decorated with trophies of Buzz's bygone pro-bowling halcyon

days.

Millie is silent. Buzz gets up and approaches Zeus.

Zeus growls at Buzz as he comes nearer, then clamps onto his

sleeve and hangs from his arm, growling ferociously. In one

smooth motion, Buzz flings the rabid poodle through an open

window and into the night.

She heads outside.

Theo sits on the edge of the couch. Buzz puts out his hand.

Theo shakes it.

15     EXT. THEO'S CAR				      15

Millie's furry slippers protrude from the driver's side door.

Zeus chews furiously on the yellow plastic 'Bowler On Board'

sign. She rifles through the contents of the overstuffed

glove compartment. She notices her dog.

16     INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM			 16

Theo's eyes glaze over, the lights in the room dim, and Buzz

seems to recede into the far distance.

17     TV SCREEN - FLASHBACK				17

In ultra-slow scan we see an image of two bowlers, one is

smiling cockily to off-screen fans and waving, the other is

Theo, his face filled with hate, winding up to smash the

other man in the head with his bowling ball.

In the far background the hollow booming VOICE of a judge

delivers sentence.

18     INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM			 18

Theo snaps out of it, the room lights come up, and Buzz leans

in.

19     INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE, KITCHEN				 19

Millie and Buzz are in the kitchen, talking in loud whispers.

Millie fills a blender while Buzz cuts oranges.

20     INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM			 20

Buzz rejoins Theo in the living room.

21     INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE, KITCHEN				 21

The blender is wailing at high speed as Millie throws in a

whole box of laxative, a can of Drano and a jar of pills. Her

hands are trembling.

22     INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM			 22

Millie walks into the living room with a silver tray holding

two orange whips; one thick and deadly, the other thin and

safe. There is laughter coming from both men.

He spies Millie approaching with the tray.

Buzz picks it up and reads the writing on the ball. He snaps

a look into the kitchen, seeing the empty Drano and laxative

cartons. Buzz slams the drink away from Theo's lips. The

drink explodes across the room. Buzz is up on his feet.

Theo stands and takes the ball from Buzz's hands. Buzz is in

shock, staring at Theo.

Buzz takes Theo by the elbow to eject him from the house.

Buzz grabs a large bowling trophy and waves it at Theo.

Theo hurls the trophy at Buzz. He ducks and the trophy sails

into a large glass trophy case. Broken glass and trophies fly

everywhere.

Zeus is laid out cold near the spilled orange whip on the

living room floor. Millie hunches over her comatose poodle.

Theo takes the ball and exits the house.

23     EXT. BRIDGE - NIGHT				  23

Theo, bathed in sweat, practices his release form with

obsessive determination. He is alone near the empty bridge.

Sheila spies on him from behind the bridge control booth.

Theo takes a long slug from a bottle of liquor. He hears a

motor scooter start and ROAR off into the night.

24     INT. 7-ELEVEN - DAY				  24

Theo stands at the self-serve island sipping coffee. A muzak

cover of 'Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head' PLAYS.

25     EXT. BUZZ'S HOUSE - DAY				    25

Millie kneels on the front lawn patting dirt down on a little

grave marked by a wooden cross. Theo walks up.

Theo lifts a box full of new bowling pins into the trunk.

Millie gets into the car.

26     INT. PETER PAN DINER - DAY				 26

A blender WHIRRS. Sheila, in her waitress uniform, carefully

chops something.

She watches an indoor motocross rally on the diner's color

TV. 12-PACK, a hefty construction worker, sits at the

counter.

THWAP! Sheila is dismembering a Ken doll with a big knife.

She scoops the parts into the blender and switches from purZe

to frappZ.

Sheila puts the glass down in front of 12-Pack with a THUNK.

Sheila smiles and walks away. Theo watches her slink behind

the counter.

Buzz pulls a golf ball from his pocket, flashes it and slips

it back.

Buzz stands up abruptly.

Buzz heads for the rest rooms. The door opens with a JINGLE.

Sid and Breeze walk over to Theo's booth and slide in. Sid's

middle fingers are taped to an aluminum splint. The BLENDER

kicks into action. Buzz watches the group from the bathroom

hall and tries to catch the conversation.

The booth party is silent for a moment. Theo LAUGHS.

Sid puts a hand near Breezes left ear and blows into Breeze's

right ear. He makes fluttering motions with his hand as if

wind was hitting it. Breeze's face breaks into a smile as he

pushes Sid away.

Buzz flashes a warning glare to Theo. Sid grabs some of

Buzz's french fries.

Sheila comes over and PLUNKS down the three whips-to-go.

Sid shies away from Theo, protecting his hand.

Buzz goes outside with a sleazeball on either side. Sheila

takes the twenty dollar bill. Theo grabs his jacket and makes

for the door.

The sleazeballs hustle Buzz into the front seat of their car

and patch out.

27     EXT. WOODS - DAY				     27

Junior is running at breakneck speed through the thick brush.

Bloodhounds BARK. Junior slows down and drops to his knees,

gasping for breath. He looks up to the sky. The camera pushes

up to his sweaty, tortured face.

28     INT. BABYLON LANES, BUZZ'S OFFICE		        28

MILES KASTLE lounges in a cheap chair behind Buzz's desk

toying with one of those motorized wire balancing sculptures

they have in airport souvenir concessions. He is a carefully

groomed middle-aged low-budget version of Hugh Hefner in an

acrylic sweatsuit with 'Miles 'O' Lanes' embroidered on the

front. Sid and Breeze push Buzz into the room. Buzz is poker

faced.

Buzz nods.

Breeze pulls the third whip out of a bag and gives it to him.

Sid and Breeze leave the room. Buzz goes to a locker and

begins changing into a flashy MC outfit.

Kastle pokes a straw into the whip and takes a long drag.

Kastle flicks the little wire man. It bobs and sways.

Buzz looks on with narrowed eyes as he adjusts his cravat.

Buzz jogs out into a spotlight.

29     INT. DWARF BOWLING ALLEY				   29

APPLAUSE erupts as Buzz appears in the spotlight. The dwarf

bowling alley is a pungently smoke-filled room peopled with

shady, washed-up bowlers sitting in chairs behind a bowling

lane. The old-timers are shouting and pounding shots.

30     EXT. BABYLON LANES - EVENING			   30

Theo drives through the full parking lot of Babylon Lanes. He

pulls around the back and sees dark figures slip into a back

door. He parks his car, walks over to the now closed door.

It's locked. Theo finds another entrance and sneaks in. He

creeps his way through the darkened alley towards the sound

of raucous partying.

Tina straps into her customized skateboard. A drunken

customer forks over a wad of bills, steps up and grabs hold

of the mini-human projectile.

Tina is hurled head-first towards the pins. The crowd goes

wild.

31     INT. BABYLON LANES, BATHROOM			   31

Theo sneaks into an empty bathroom. He hears voices and ducks

into a stall. Sid and Breeze shove Buzz into the room.

Sid shoves Buzz over to Breeze, Breeze shoves him back.

Sid checks under the stalls, sees Theo's feet and whips open

the door.

Sid yanks Theo out.

Theo tries to free himself from Sid's grip. He turns to Buzz.

Theo pushes Buzz up against a stack of boxes full of new

bowling pins. Sid and Breeze hover behind them.

Buzz reaches inside a box and pulls out a pin. He waves it

threateningly at Theo.

32     DWARF BOWLING ALLEY				  32

Theo is dragged through the dwarf alley crowd. He has blood

on his face. Half dazed, he looks up at all the distorted

leering faces that peer down at him. The crowd cat-calls and

laughs at Theo.

33     EXT. BABYLON LANES, PARKING LOT - EVENING		33

Theo is thrown onto the asphalt. Sid kicks Theo.

34     EXT. PETER PAN DINER - DAY				 34

Theo sits in his parked car outside the Peter Pan diner.

Squinting in the bright light, he examines the cuts on his

face in the sideview mirror. He is looking scruffier. He sees

Sheila come out of the diner, start her scooter, and pull out

into traffic. He follows her.

35     EXT. BRIDGE					35

He follows the Vespa at a discreet distance as Sheila drives

over the bridge. The weather is windy and threatening.

Thunder RUMBLES.

36     EXT. MILES 'O' LANES				 36

Theo pulls in next to Sheila's scooter under the big neon

sign for Miles 'O' Lanes Bowling Center. With a huge CLAP of

thunder and the SOUND of falling pins, the skies release a

pounding downpour.

37     KEN AND BARBIE, MACRO C.U.				 37

Sheila's Vespa is parked in the handicapped space. The dolls

are wired to the headset of the scooter. Large droplets of

rain roll down their faces.

38     INT. MILES 'O' LANES				 38

Theo walks into an ultramodern eighty-lane bowling center,

bowling bag in hand.

A huge banner reads 'Mothers and Daughters Bowl Free

Tonight!' The entire place is filled with pairs of moms and

their daughters - bowling away in matching bowling attire. A

three year-old girl stands staring at Theo.

A mom grabs the little girl and whisks her away. Theo surveys

the alley and catches sight of Sheila bowling at the far end

of the alley.

39     LANE, SHEILA & LUNA				  39

Sheila bowls with LUNA, a 30-ish black guy dressed in a Miles

'O' Lanes jumpsuit and wearing extensions in his hair. Sheila

prods her friend when she sees Theo.

Theo walks over. Sheila presents Theo with her ball.

Sheila can't release the ball from Theo's now-paralytic grip.

40     INT. MILES KASTLE'S OFFICE				 40

Kastle, Sid, and Breeze stare at a bank of video monitors,

their faces illuminated by the screens.

41     LANE, SHEILA & THEO				  41

The two of them sit together behind the lanes.

They pause and Kastle waves to some bowlers.

They continue walking.

They stop, and Kastle pulls Theo over to an enormous aquarium

near the lounge.

42     INT. MILES KASTLE'S OFFICE				 42

Kastle and Theo stand in front of the huge bank of video

screens.

Kastle turns to his video screens.

43     THEO'S POV - NIGHTMARE				     43

As running FOOTSTEPS are heard, the camera whizzes down a

darkened alley towards the pins.

44     EXT. WOODS - NIGHTMARE				     44

The heels of Junior's running feet.

45     INT. MILES KASTLE'S OFFICE				 45

Theo snaps out of it, the room lights come up, and Kastle

points to her image on the TV screen. Sheila turns and looks

up at the video camera. Theo and Sheila's eyes seem to meet.

Theo freezes for a moment.

As the two men shake hands, Sheila "flips the bird" to the

camera.

46     EXT. HIGHWAY - EARLY EVENING			   46

Theo and Sheila blast along the dark roadway on her Vespa,

Theo sitting behind Sheila.

47     EXT. PARKING FIELD				   47

Sheila and Theo motor across an empty beach parking field

towards a lone station wagon. Swing-a-delic MUSIC drifts from

the parked vehicle.

47     EXT. STATION WAGON				   47

Sheila pulls up beside the wagon. She leads Theo towards a

group of partying people at the tailgate of the car; three

white women, three white men and Luna. Luna pulls a rubber

hookah hose out of his mouth and offers it to Theo.

Theo shakes his head.

Luna throws himself into a wild body-whip as the music THROBS

massively.

EXT. DANCE

Luna and Sheila do a wild jitterbug-derived Swing-a-Delic

dance surrounded by weaving white folk.

EXT. BARBECUE

One of the guys is on crutches, has a neck brace, a chest

cast, and one arm in a truss. He stands by the barbecue and

flips burgers with his one free hand. Theo walks over to him.

He wiggles his hand out of the end of his cast. Theo shakes

his fingers.

Luna comes over to Theo and grabs him. They start to dance.

EXT. DANCE

Theo pulls out his resin bag, powders up his hands, and goes

for Sheila. Theo and Sheila get low and nasty on the tarmac.

Sheila turns and does the freak to Theo, rubbing her rear end

into his crotch. As Theo and Sheila dance over near John he

makes a throat slitting gesture across his neck. Theo's hands

leave white prints on Sheila's butt. The Swing-a-delic funks

so hard it causes spontaneous audience dance riots and

structural damage in theaters across the country.

EXT. PARKING FIELD - NIGHT

Sheila and Theo toast marshmallows over the barbecue as the

rest of the party dances in the background.

48     INT. MILES KASTLE'S OFFICE				 48

Alone, Kastle stares at the bank of video monitors and runs a

battery powered fuzzball remover around his collar. The

monitors are deserted. Miles absently pans a camera over and

then sits bolt upright. On the screen he can see Buzz Fazeli,

in a room at Babylon Lanes, surrounded by large piles of

cash, stuffing rolls of bills into hollow bowling pins.

The motor in the fuzz ball remover SHRIEKS as Miles squeezes

it to death. It shatters in his hands.

49     EXT. PARKING FIELD - NIGHT				 49

Theo and Sheila lie on the roof of the station wagon. "Devil

With The Blue Dress" by Shorty Long plays on the stereo. The

rest of the party throws marshmallows at each other in the

distance.

Sheila takes Theo's nervous hands and places them inside her

shirt.

50     INT. MILES 'O' LANES				 50

Kastle hurries through the darkened bowling alley. He stops

short as a warning alarm begins to sound from somewhere deep

within the building. Lane six lights up and comes to life.

Kastle walks slowly forward.

INT. MACHINERY GALLEY

Kastle stealthily sneaks along beside row upon row of silent

pin reset machines shining a flashlight in front of him.

Kastle reaches into his pocket and pulls a gaudy digital

wristwatch from his pocket.

He holds the watch up in front of Junior. Junior looks

curiously at the watch.

The watch begins to play an electronic version of "Raindrops

Keep Falling On My Head." Junior's face lights up.

Kastle begins luring Junior out of machine number six with

the watch.

51     EXT. ROAD, SID & BREEZE'S CAR - DAY		      51

Breeze and Sid speed down a road in their damaged hulk. The

TENOR of Enrico Caruso can be heard from inside.

51     INT. SID & BREEZE'S CAR				    51

Breeze drives. Sid gazes out the window. Enrico Caruso WAILS

from the car stereo.

Sid seems to calm down.

Sid starts pressing buttons on the tape deck

Sid and Breeze struggle for the cassette. The music DISTORTS

into a warbling gurgle of an aria.

Sid yanks the cassette out, but the tape becomes tangled in

the player. He pulls at the endless yards of tape and throws

the whole mess out the window.

52     EXT. PETER PAN DINER - DAY				 52

Theo, wearing sunglasses and dressed in a jogging suit

similar to Miles Kastle's, steps out of the diner with a bag

containing four orange whips. He goes over to his parked car.

Buzz walks up.

Theo takes a long drag from his orange whip.

Theo starts his car.

come here to find a father. You didn't even come here for

help. You just came here to take it all out on somebody. Well

it ain't gonna be me! Theo pulls out of the parking lot. Buzz

yells after him.

53     EXT. KASTLE HOUSE, GARAGE				  53

The Kastle home is a huge nouveau riche Brady Bunch style

house with a large deck jutting over the driveway. The doors

are open on the spacious two car garage.

Sheila has the headset of her Vespa disassembled. Theo walks

up the driveway, orange whips in hand.

He sits nearby.

54     EXT. KASTLE HOUSE, DECK				    54

Sheila and Theo stand on the deck. Sheila scans the road

leading to the house with binoculars.

55     EXT. KASTLE HOUSE, DRIVEWAY				55

Kastle's car comes belly-flopping to a stop in front of the

house. Kastle climbs out and gesticulates wildly to the

couple.

BLACKNESS INSIDE THE TRUNK

SOUNDS of the group gathering outside can be heard.

The lid flies up and Kastle, Sheila, and Theo stand there,

with party hats and party horns in their mouths. They all

cheer and throw confetti.

Kastle takes a flash snapshot. Junior, lying on some folded

blankets in the trunk, looks at his family with a stunned

expression. He is in a straitjacket. Junior's new watch

begins to PLAY "Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head". He

struggles to pull his arm out, but can't. Kastle reaches in

to untie the straitjacket.

Untied, Junior presses the BEEPING watch against his ear. His

face breaks into a beatific smile.

56     EXT. KASTLE HOUSE, PICNIC TABLE - AFTERNOON		    56

Kastle pulls shish kebab chunks off a skewer. He looks down

to see that one of the chunks is a melted Ken head. He throws

it away in disgust.

Sheila and Kastle sit up.

Sheila glances nervously at Theo.

57     EXT. KASTLE HOUSE, CAKE				    57

A bowling pin-shaped cake with candles ablaze is presented to

a seated Junior. He is wearing a paper birthday hat. The four

orange whips are arrayed around the table.

Junior stares into Sheila's eyes for several seconds.

Sheila blows out the candles in a hurry.

Kastle places a gift-wrapped box in front of Junior and lifts

the lid. He reaches in and pulls out a huge, intricate claw-

like arm-shaped device made of plastic and metal and covered

with cables.

The two sleazeballs walk up onto the deck and over to the

table.

Kastle gets up.

The two men turn, laughing, and follow Kastle.

58     EXT. KASTLE HOUSE, DRIVEWAY				58

Kastle huddles with Sid and Breeze, Jr. stands nearby

fiddling with his new bowling arm.

59     EXT. BABYLON LANES, PARKING LOT			59

Buzz checks if the coast is clear and then stuffs boxes of

bowling pins into the trunk of his car.

60     EXT. KASTLE HOUSE, DECK				    60

Theo and Kastle stand on the deck watching the sleazeballs

put Junior into the trunk of their car. Kastle lights an

oversized cigar and hands one to Theo.

Kastle hands her the card and heads into the house.

She turns away.

61     EXT. BUZZ'S HOUSE - NIGHT				  61

Sid and Breeze's car sits in front of Buzz's house. 8-track

opera PLAYS on the car stereo. A man screams and glass

smashes.

INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE

P.O.V. shot running desperately through the house, knocking

things over, smashing things. We HEAR Buzz screaming in

terror. The scream is cut off. With a THUD, the camera falls

over and hits the floor. The golf ball rolls slowly into

view, and stops. Footsteps recede, a door slams, and a car

drives away.

62     EXT. MILES 'O' LANES - NIGHT			   62

Theo and Sheila walk her Vespa up to the darkened alley. Theo

is wearing his own clothes again. The SOUND of a lone bowler

is heard. Theo straps on his wristbrace. Sheila pulls out

keys.

63     INT. MILES 'O' LANES				 63

Theo snakes his way along the rows of pin machines, towards

the only light source - lane six. As he leans in to peer

through the machine, a ball EXPLODES into the pins. Junior,

wearing his elaborate bowling claw, is working himself into a

sweaty froth. Junior picks up his ball and sends it CRASHING

into the pins.

Theo remains silent.

Junior walks towards Theo.

Theo remains silent.

Theo stretches to get a nearby ball, but just can't reach it,

by millimeters.

Theo gets his fingers in a bowling ball and brings it up to

bash Junior in the head.

Theo bashes Junior in the head with the ball. It bounces off

Junior's head like a Nerf ball and rolls down the alley.

Theo desperately, but fruitlessly tries to get away. As he

crawls over the ball return trough, Junior puts his foot on

Theo's head.

MACHINE NUMBER 6

Junior pulls the dazed Theo into the pin-reset machine and

positions him under the pins. As Junior prepares the

machinery, a control cable on his claw becomes fouled. Junior

begins to thrash about as he tries to disentangle himself and

his malfunctioning arm. Theo rolls away as Junior's flailing

releases the machine. It comes slamming down on Junior just

as Theo slips out of harm's way. He gets up and staggers away

from the machine. Junior's HOWL echoes across the lanes. His

twitching feet protrude from the maw of the device. Lane six

goes dark. Theo limps up the lane.

64     EXT. BRIDGE					64

Theo drives up to the erect draw-bridge. He stops and gets

out. The night is silent.

Sheila pops out of the bushes and walks towards Theo.

Theo paces up and down in front of the upright bridge.

Theo backs Sheila towards the bridge control booth.

Theo boosts Sheila up the ladder to the control booth. The

hydraulic machinery of the bridge heaves into motion and the

bridge begins to lower. Theo walks over to his car. Sheila

jumps down from the bridge control booth and follows him.

65     INT. THEO'S CAR - NIGHT				    65

Theo grips the steering wheel with white knuckles. He nods

off at the wheel, the roadway through his eyes wavering and

distorting. He hits himself in the face in an effort to keep

himself awake.

66     INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE - NIGHTMARE			  66

The house is dark except for a light coming from the closed

bathroom door. Theo cautiously makes his way to the door.

WATER is running inside. Theo twists the doorknob and opens

the door with a jolt. Junior lunges out of the dark, mangled

and bloody with bowling pins sticking out of his chest.

Theo SLAMS the door shut.

67     EXT. BUZZ'S HOUSE - DAWN				   67

Theo jerks awake. His car is parked by the Fazeli house. It

is a clear, blustery day.

A gust of wind pulls the screen door open, then SLAMS it

shut. He gets out of the car and walks unsteadily towards the

house.

68     INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM			 68

Theo walks into the house. The place is completely trashed.

Theo picks up a golf ball from the floor. He makes his way to

the bathroom door and slowly turns the knob; then pulls back.

He picks up a nearby bowling ball and holds it over his head

as he reaches for the doorknob. This time, he thrusts the

door open. The bathroom is empty. Relieved, he cradles the

ball in his arms.

INT. BUZZ'S HOUSE, BATHROOM

Water runs as Theo manically washes the blood from his hands

and arms. He rinses the blood from the holes of his ball and

looks up to the mirror. "NOK NOK" is smeared in blood across

his reflection.

69     EXT. 7-ELEVEN PHONE BOOTH - DAY			69

Theo waits through several rings.

Theo hangs up the phone. Alfie shuffles over.

70     EXT. MILES 'O' LANES				 70

Theo pulls into the parking lot. The place is cordoned off

with day-glo yellow emergency tape printed with "Bowling

Police - Do Not Cross". A black bowling police van, its blue

light spinning, is parked in front. Bowling cops herd dwarfs

and customers into the van. Mothers and daughters mill around

behind the yellow tape. A group of little people brandish

"Right to Work" signs. Theo gets out of his car. The crowd

moves in as Kastle, hands cuffed behind him, emerges from the

door.

Camera flashes POP all over the place. Two black-jacketed

bowling cops step out behind him. They are Sid and Breeze.

Theo gets into his car and starts the engine. Sid and Breeze

poke their heads in the windows.

Sid chews his lip worriedly.

71     INT. THEO'S CAR - AFTERNOON				71

Theo nods off for a second and then snaps back. His eyes seem

hypnotized by the lines on the road which seem to swim and

undulate unnaturally. He nods again. And snaps again.

72     EXT. PARKING FIELD - TWILIGHT			  72

Theo pulls up to the old party spot and gets out. He walks

over the dunes and towards the beached station wagon. A huge

flame rises down the beach. A woman is visible in its light,

tossing objects into the fire. Theo walks towards her.

EXT. BEACH, BONFIRE

Sheila is stripping Barbie and Ken dolls and tossing them

onto the pyre. Each one goes up in an exaggerated  WHOOSH of

flames. She notices Theo when he steps into the light.

Theo puts his hand on Sheila's hand. She looks at him.

Sheila pushes him over. He falls backwards, her on top.

Sheila yanks her shirt over her head and tosses it away.

She pulls Theo's head up to her breasts.

A Barbie's breasts blister from the heat.

A Ken back bubbles and melts. Theo lifts Sheila's back off

the sand and works her jeans down her legs.

They humpty-hump to the beat of "Scientist's"

'DEMATERIALIZE.' We hear Theo and Sheila's stereophonic

MOANING as a Barbie and a Ken doll collapse and vaporize from

the blazing heat.

We pan up through the flames, the MOANS increasing in volume

and intensity as they reach the you-know-what-we've-all-been-

waiting-for.

73     EXT. CEMETERY - DAY				  73

A coffin moves slowly forward as a solemn DIRGE plays. The

top is in the shape of a bowling alley with a miniature black

bowling ball inscribed with "The Faz" at the head. The

pallbearers; Theo, Breeze, Sid, Tina, and two other bowlers

place the coffin on poles above the grave. A rotund priest

sprinkles holy water. Sheila stands next to Theo, crying.

(more)

Theo wears a glazed look. The priest clears his throat with a

loud AHEM.

Sid leans over to Theo.

Tina steps up to the grave with a handful of papers.

Mourners sniff and cry. The coffin starts descending into the

ground. A stiff breeze scatters the scoresheets. Sheila

nudges Theo who approaches and tosses a handful of soil into

the grave.

The two sleazeballs gaze surreptitiously at him as they walk

towards their car. Theo grabs Sheila's jacket.

74     EXT. CEMETERY PARKING LOT				  74

As Sid and Breeze walk up to their car, Theo catches up with

them.

Sid and Breeze back away from Theo.

Happy now, busyboy? Theo stares at the newspaper. He lets

Sid's fingers drop.

75     EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY				   75

Sheila speeds along, her Vespa maxing out at 30 mph. From

behind her we see Theo's car approaching rapidly. He pulls up

beside her.

She speeds ahead.

76     EXT. HIGHWAY				         76

Theo THUNDERS along in his car. He listens to his SONG over

the stereo. Theo digs into his pocket and pulls out the golf

ball from Buzz's house.

77     GOLF BALL					  77

The logo on the ball reads "PARADISE."

The white ball fills the frame.

The camera pulls back from the ball to reveal:

78     INT. TROPICAL 7-ELEVEN - DAY			   78

Theo standing in flowery long Bermuda shorts, matching

airbrush Luau shirt and 7-11 shades. The woman behind the

counter looks like Alfie's twin. (It's actually Alfie in

drag.) It's the same store as before, only with a tropical

motif. Instead of bowling magazines on the rack, there's Mini-

Golf Digest. ALFREDA examines the ball at arm's length,

through her bifocals.

79     EXT. BILLBOARD - DAY				 79

The billboard fills the frame. It reads "Paradise Putt-Putt",

and underneath: "A heavenly experience." A motorized cheesy-

looking smiling dwarf-angel swings a golden club.

EXT. MINI-GOLF COURSE

Miniature golf obstacles are bathed in the light of the

setting sun. The camera passes a huge cement centaur

surrounded by astro-carpeting.

She swings a club, sending a golf ball puttering into a cup.

Theo strides towards the couple. The man under the halo is

(more)

Buzz. He raises the club at the approaching Theo, keeping the

woman in front of him as a shield. The front of Buzz's cap

reads "I'm No Angel."

As she tries to wiggle away from him, the club conks Buzz on

the noodle, squishing his halo.

Buzz removes his damaged cap.

Buzz pats his hair down and slips the cap back on his head.

Theo digs into his pocket and retrieves the golf ball. He

tosses it to Buzz.

Theo turns and walks towards his car. Buzz pauses and walks

after him.

Buzz backs away from the car as Theo peels out in reverse.

Buzz stands and watches as Theo pulls away.

80     EXT. MILES 'O' LANES PARKING LOT - DAY		   80

The sign has been changed to "SHEILA'S ALLEY." A sparkling

new badass super-chromed Vespa is parked in the handicap

zone. The Barbie and Ken dolls are wired to the headlamp.

They look incredibly worse for the wear. A parking ticket is

nestled between them. Theo's car pulls in nearby.

81     INT. SHEILA'S ALLEY				  81

Theo walks through the doors and into the alley packed with

serious bowling types. As he walks towards the back of the

alley, several bowlers stop bowling and stare at him in awe.

Theo walks on. Others greet the conquering hero.

At the far end, we see Sheila, dressed in a fitted jogging

suit, bowling alone on her lane. Bowlers stop and hold their

balls at their sides. Sheila notices the whole alley is

silent. Theo steps up to the lane, bowling ball bag in hand.

As he straps on his wristbrace he peers down the lane and

sees a seven-ten split; mule ears.

82     BLACKNESS					  82

A loud ZIP and light spills in through three holes. Three

fingers approach the holes, blocking out the light once more.

With a POP, the fingers leave the holes and the ball hits the

lane with a KLUNK.

LANE

The camera races towards the pins along the maple boards.

PINS

Two pins loom in the foreground, one at each edge of the

screen. The ball slams into the right hand pin in super slow

motion with a ROAR. Theo's eyes slowly close. The pin lifts

and hurtles slowly across the frame towards its unsuspecting

fellow pin. Theo's eyes open. With a reverberating EXPLOSION,

the pin is taken out.

83     INT. SHEILA'S ALLEY, THEO & SHEILA		       83

Theo turns to Sheila and takes her in his arms.

She pulls out a hundred dollar bill.

Sheila stuffs the bill down Theo's pants.

They smooch big time. One by one, balls drop to the lanes

again and pins start CRASHING.

84     EXT. CEMETERY - DAY				  84

Alfie, hands trembling, lays a tiny wreath on Buzz Fazeli's

grave. The headstone reads, "Maynard 'Buzz' Fazeli 'I Never

Met A Bowler I Didn't Like.'" A muffled watch beeper CHIMES

"Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head." The camera pulls up to

show ten headstones laid out in a bowling pin set-up with

Buzz's at the head.

85     EXT. MINI-GOLF COURSE				85

Buzz's silhouette against an orange sunburst sky. He wears

his halo hat. He takes a beautiful PGA-perfect slow motion

fluid golf swing, connecting with a THWAP. As he follows

through, divots of turf dance at his feet. MUSIC swells. He

holds the afterswing pose and gazes after the ball, off into

the distance.

