<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

STAR TREK: NEMESIS

FADE IN:

INT.  MEDICAL MONTAGE - DAY

Life.  Glorious in its many forms.  The biological pulse

finding its way heroically through the cold manipulation of

science.

CREDITS as we see a beautiful montage of futuristic medical

technology.  Through a microscope we see cells multiplying

and gene strands exponentially increasing with the vibrancy

of exploding flowers.  We see laser splicing and biological

manipulation on the molecular level.

CREDITS continue as we fade to...

INT.  ROMULAN SENATE CHAMBER - NIGHT

Politics... In a cavernous, shadowy chamber.  Dark figures

lean together and talk seriously.  Their hushed, urgent tones

denote the gravity of their discussion.

We can't make out the words but there is no doubt what they

are talking about.

The three year old HUMAN BOY who stands before them.  The boy

is alone and frightened, lost in the sweeping grandeur of

the massive chamber.

CREDITS continue as we fade to...

EXT.  REMAN HOMEWORLD - NIGHT

Labor...

On a stark, desert planet with monolithic mountains and harsh

crags shooting upward.  The only light in this dark

netherworld comes from the flames that accompany the hellish

mining operations everywhere around us.

The human boy gazes over this desolate vista and then he

looks up for a moment... at the stars.

Then a tall figure leads him firmly into one of the mines.

The boy seems to disappear into this flaming crucible.

CREDITS end as we go to...

EXT.  ROMULUS - SUNSET

The sun is setting on the capital city of the great Romulan

Star Empire, The imperial monoliths and martial towers of

this bustling city glow red as the sun dips below the

horizon.

We slowly move down toward the most imposing building of the

city.  The Romulan Senate chamber.

INT.  ROMULAN SENATE CHAMBER - SUNSET

SENATOR TAL'AURA watches the proceedings with a studied look

of bored indifference.  She glances to the familiar Romulan

crest that dominates one wall of the chamber: a ferocious

bird-of-prey holding two planets, one in either claw.

And then her eyes carefully cross the chamber to...

PRAETOR HIREN -- the head of the Romulan government --

presiding over the Senate from a throne-like chair.  He is a

capable politician in his 50s.

Senator Tal'Aura grunts slightly at the word "negotiations."

Praetor Hiren glances to her.

The Praetor nods.  Tal'Aura stands and leaves the chamber...

but she had left something behind on her desk.  A small,

silver box with unusual etchings on the surface.

The discussion continues as we focus on the silver box...

The Senator at the desk next to Tal'Aura's glances over.  The

silver box is moving.

The Senator watches, amazed, as the box begins to slowly fold

open.  Then "legs" appear.  The box unfolds like a spider,

standing on its legs.  Then it is still for a moment.  The

Senator looks at it, puzzled.

Suddenly -- a bright beam of green light shoots up from the

spider -- the Senators are stunned -- the beam shoots to the

high domed ceiling of the chamber and then cascades around

the interior of the room, enveloping everything in a glowing

shroud of green energy.  In a way, it is bizarrely beautiful.

And then just as suddenly the light disappears.

A moment of silence.  The Praetor and Senators are baffled.

A plant behind the Praetor begins to shrivel...

The Praetor stops suddenly -- as the flesh begins to melt

from his face.

Every bit of organic matter in the chamber decays.  Flesh

melts from bones while the Senators scream in agony.  Every

living thing in the chamber is dead within ten seconds.

A stunning moment of silence as we take in the carnage.  Then

a transporter effect ripples around the spider-weapon.  It

disappears.

And the Romulan Senate is no more.  We fade to...

EXT.  EARTH, ALASKA - PAVILION - DAY

JEAN LUC PICARD, the most beloved and respected Captain in

Starfleet.

His face is resolute and set.  Even stern.  His white dress

uniform is buttoned tightly to the neck.

He looks at us evenly and then utters the word that has been

the watch cry for his entire life as a Starfleet officer.

He lets the word resonate and then continues.

Uproarious laughter.  We pull back to reveal the wedding

reception of WILL RIKER and DEANNA TROI.

The Enterprise CREW is gathered with invited GUESTS, some

from other "Star Trek" series.  Riker and Deanna sit at the

center of a long table.

Deanna nods her head and coos sympathetically.  Hearty,

wonderful LAUGHTER!

Laughter, laughter, laughter!  He looks to Riker and Deanna:

He smiles and raises his glass, looks at them deeply.

They drink.

EXT.  EARTH, ALASKA - PAVILION - LATER

The party guests mingle as a band plays.  We are at a

beautiful open-air pavilion high in the Denali Mountains.

The soaring ranges of Riker's native Alaska can be seen

everywhere around us.

DR. BEVERLY CRUSHER goes to Picard.

They head off toward Riker and Deanna.

Meanwhile, GEORDI LA FORGE sits with his girlfriend.

He kisses her gently as WORF comes to them.  Poor Worf is

still suffering a bit from the bachelor party.  He plops down

beside them, belches.

He groans and rests his head on the table, acts like he's

going to heave.  Meanwhile, Riker and Deanna are talking to

Picard and Beverly.

Picard looks at him.  Deanna laughs.

Then the band stops playing.  All turn.

DATA stands with the band.

Riker shoots an amused glance to Deanna.  Conjugation?

Data turns to the band leader.

The band launches into a jaunty, swing version of the Irving

Berlin standard "Blue Skies."

The crowd is appreciative.  Loves the song.  Except Worf, he

momentarily raises his head from the table.

His heads thumps down again, is about ready to BARF!

Meanwhile, Riker is anxious as a kid to join the band:

Riker eagerly joins the band.  Grabs the trombone and starts

jamming with the orchestra.  The song really swings.

Meanwhile, Geordi leads Leah to the dance floor as well.

Beverly goes to Worf.

She pulls him to the dance floor as:

They dance.  Picard and Deanna sweep past them.

And we pull up and away as Data continues to sing and the

crew dances.  It is a joyous celebration of these people.

This family.  A family we love.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACE

The Enterprise streaks through space.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - CREW LOUNGE - NIGHT

Data sits in the empty Crew Lounge.

As always, the android's placid, neutral expression still

somehow manages to convey his wonder, curiosity and

idiosyncratic zest for life.

Picard arrives with a very old bottle of wine.

He carefully uncorks the treasured bottle as:

He pours two glasses of the wine, then raises his glass, a

toast.

Picard carefully takes a tiny sip, savors the flavor, finally

swallows.  Enjoys it.  Ahhh.

Data mimics Picard.  Taking a tiny sip, savoring the flavor

and finally swallowing.  Ahhh.

He takes another sip of wine.  A beat.

A beat.  Data thinks about it.

They drink.

INT.  ROMULAN SENATE - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Flickering braziers dimly illuminate the cold, martial

splendor of a Senate corridor.

COMMANDER DONATRA and COMMANDER SURAN stride through the

corridor.

Suran is an elder Romulan officer, respected and tenacious.

Donatra -- a key figure in this story so pay close attention

to her -- is a mature, beautiful woman... not without a dry

sense of humor.

A voice, from the shadows:

Donatra and Suran stop.

And the VICEROY steps from the shadows...

He is a terrifying sight  A powerful, monstrous alien

creature; a tall, ashen-skinned ectomorph who bears a

disturbing resemblance to the original Nosferatu.  He is

vampiric and lethal.  He is a Reman.

He leads them along the corridor.

INT.  SENATE CHAMBER - NIGHT

We observe the Romulan crest, an imposing bird-of-prey

clutching a planet in either claw, not unlike the KAOS emblem

from "Get Smart," that dominates a wall.  As we hear:

And then we see him... SHINZON!

He is a dynamic young human in his twenties.  Very handsome

with pale, almost white skin and shining, golden hair.  He

wears a striking Reman military uniform.

He stands in the center of the eerily deserted chamber.  The

entire floor is a large star chart.

Senator Tal'Aura (the female Senator who planted the weapon

in the Senate chamber earlier) and two other ROMULAN

COMMANDERS sit.

Cadres of Shinzon's fearsome REMAN WARRIORS stand around the

chamber.  They are his sinister children of the night.  Even

more chilling now in the flickering torch light.  It's like

something out of Tim Burton.

Donatra and Suran enter the chamber with Shinzon's Viceroy.

Shinzon looks at her.  A quick beat.  Shinzon decides to

respond with benevolence.  He smiles.

He stands on the area of the map that denotes the Neutral

Zone between the Romulan Empire and the Federation.

He carefully steps into the area of the map marked with the

Federation symbol.  He looks down at the star chart.

A beat.  Donatra watches him carefully.  Something in his

quiet words disturbs her.

They look at him, stunned.

The Commanders and Senator Tal'Aura rise and leave.  Shinzon

looks to his Viceroy.

A beat.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - DAY

The bridge crew are at their stations.  Picard is not on the

bridge.

Worf groans.  Picard emerges from his Ready Room as:

Deanna laughs.  Then a readout on Worf's console attracts his

attention:

Worf looks up.  Glances at Data.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - LATER

Geordi is at the Engineering station with Picard, Riker and

Data.

Picard glances at Data, recognizes the android's deep desire

to explore this possible connection to others like himself.

He goes.

Meanwhile, Geordi and Data remain at the Engineering Station,

studying the displays.

Data doesn't respond, but the curiosity on his face is

apparent.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - OVER KOLARUS III - SPACE

The Enterprise is in orbit around the uncharted planet.  In

the distance we can see the distorting violence of an ion

storm.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE

Kolarus III is on the viewscreen, the ion storm raging beyond

it.

Picard, Data and Worf start heading toward the turbolift.

He steps into the turbolift with the Data and Worf.

The turbolift doors slide shut.

The bridge crew heartily enjoys Riker's momentary demotion to

house husband.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - OVER KOLARUS III - DAY

The shuttlebay doors slide open and the transport vehicle

Argo emerges.

The Argo is larger than a regular shuttle with a particularly

large cargo area at the back.

EXT.  KOLARUS III - DAY

The Argo lands on the planet.  It is primarily a desert

environment with some canyons and mountains.  Like Death

Valley, blazing heat waves shimmer in the distance.  The

shuttle sits silently for a moment.  We wonder at the delay,

then...

The rear cargo doors slide open and Picard, Data and Worf

roar out on a 24th Century equivalent of a military jeep!

Picard drives, Data beside him.  Worf stands in the back at a

mounted phaser canon.  It is a muscular, exciting vehicle; a

Starfleet version of the jeep from old television series "The

Rat Patrol."

Picard screeches to a stop.  Data and Worf lurch.  A cloud of

dust momentarily obscures them.  Data quickly monitors the

positronic signatures with a tricorder:

He roars off in a cloud of dust!

Picard clearly enjoys driving.  He roars over the desert

terrain at breakneck speed, having a hell of a good time.

His comrades don't exactly appreciate his free-spirited

driving panache.

Worf clings on to the mounted phaser canon for dear life.

Data steadies himself by grasping onto the rollbar

Picard smiles and drives a little faster.

They continue on.  Before long they can see something on the

level desert floor before them.  They approach and stop to

discover...

An android arm.  The fingers patiently drumming the ground.

Worf climbs from the jeep and carefully approaches the arm.

Gingerly picks it up.  The arm responds to being picked up,

the hand starts feeling around in the air like something from

a horror movie.  Worf shudders.

He returns to the jeep.  Quickly sets the arm down in the

rear cargo area.

Picard starts the jeep in motion.

Time passes as they continue on... coming across another

arm... a leg... a torso... another leg... various

disassembled components of a Data-like android!

EXT.  JEEP - KOLARUS III - CANYON - DAY

Worf stands uneasily amidst the moving body parts.  There is

only one component missing: the head.  Picard steers the jeep

into a canyon.  Stops.  Data scans with his tricorder,

pointing it up into the gently sloping hills that form the

sides of the canyon.

Worf and Data climb up into the hills in pursuit of the final

piece as Picard opens the jeep's hood and checks the engine.

EXT.  KOLARUS III - HILLS - DAY

Worf and Data climb as Data scans and indicates the

direction:

Worf pulls his phaser, ready.

Then they see it.

Data's head.  Or the spitting image anyway.  Lying inert in

the dust before them.

Then the head's eyes suddenly pop open.  It looks up at them

with a sort of blank, childlike wonder.

Data gently picks up the head.  Looks at it.  The two

identical faces gaze at each other.

Then BLAM! -- a boulder near them explodes.  Worf and Data

spin to see...

A nomadic tribe of desert ALIENS swarming toward them firing

primitive plasma weapons --

Data and Worf race back down the canyon, toward the jeep --

some open-field running and a bit of phaser action -- Worf

firing to distract and slow the aliens, not kill them --

through all of this the head is chattering away blandly:

The action continues.  Then Data finds himself almost

surrounded --

Worf turns -- Data throws the head to Worf like a football, a

perfect spiral -- the head is still chattering away -- Worf

catches it --

The head abruptly stops talking.

Data, hands free now, quickly incapacitates the aliens around

him with a dazzling demonstration of his superior strength

and agility.

Meanwhile, Worf tucks the head under his arm and sprints like

a master running back -- evading aliens and occasionally

firing his phaser --

They are closer to the jeep now -- but they are in trouble --

the swarm of aliens almost overtaking them -- !

When a thundering BLAST sends up a shower of debris, stopping

the aliens -- Picard is standing in the rear of the jeep,

firing the phaser canon.

Data and Worf climb into the jeep as Picard leaps into the

front seat and roars off --

INT./ EXT.  JEEP - KOLARUS III - FOLLOWING

Worf, standing at the phaser canon, quickly hands the head to

Data in the front seat:

The head looks up at Picard.

Picard glances at the head.

Picard turns to see that they are being pursued!  The aliens

are racing after them in crude desert-terrain vehicles --

He floors it -- racing across the desert landscape.

Worf fires the mounted phaser canon -- blasting away at the

aliens, not killing them, just stopping them -- a few

dramatic crashes as the alien vehicles overturn --

Meanwhile:

They continue to speed over the landscape -- bouncing and

flying over natural rises in the terrain -- trying to evade

their pursuers --

Picard puts the pedal to the metal and races through the

alien vehicles -- weaving in and out, avoiding their fire --

Worf blasts away with the phaser cannon -- an exhilarating

adventure --

Finally they are within sight of the Argo -- but they see it

is surrounded by more of the aliens!

Data punches some buttons on a dashboard console -- and the

Argo LIFTS OFF by remote control --

Data uses the console to swing the Argo around and lower the

rear cargo doors -- it hovers over the surface --

Picard floors the jeep -- using a natural rise in the terrain

as a ramp -- the jeep FLIES THROUGH THE AIR -- over the

aliens -- and into the cargo bay --

INT.  ARGO - CARGO BAY - FOLLOWING

Picard slams on the brakes -- the jeep screeches to a stop as

the doors shut and the Argo shoots into the air.

Picard climbs from the jeep.  He nonchalantly rubs a bit of

dirt from the hood and then disappears into the main cabin.

Data and Worf remain in the jeep for a beat, stunned.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - ENGINEERING LAB - DAY

Beverly gazes at the android head.  It gazes back at her.

We pull back to reveal she is speaking to Data.  Data stands

with Picard, Riker and Geordi.

The android is in a framework rig that holds the various body

parts in place.  The parts are not yet assembled

He goes.  Geordi and Data begin to reassemble the B-9 piece

by piece like the Tin Man as:

Time passes...

And still the B-9 is yammering blandly away.  He is more

fully assembled   By this time Beverly is thoroughly bored.

She quickly exits.

Time passes...

And still the B-9 is yammering away.  He is almost completely

assembled by now.  Riker is bored out of his mind.

He escapes.

Geordi groans.

Time passes...

And still the B-9 is yammering away.  By this time Geordi is

slumped in a chair and only Data is listening.  The B-9 is

fully assembled.

A beat.  The B-9 is finally done with his tale...

INT.  ENTERPRISE - CREW LOUNGE - NIGHT

Riker and Deanna are having dinner with Worf.

They see Data enter the lounge, carefully leading the B-9.

They watch as Data leads the B-9 to a table.  Data instructs

him to sit.  The B-9 sits and stares forward placidly.  Data

shows him how use a napkin.

A note of concern passes over Deanna's face as she watches

Data and the B-9.

There is something strangely poignant in the twin androids.

One a bundle of curiosity and intelligence; the other

somewhat like a slow, simple child.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - READY ROOM - NIGHT

Picard is at his replicator unit.

A cup of tea appears.  He takes it as the door chime sounds.

He sits at his desk  She sits across from him.

A quiet beat.

They are interrupted by a comm signal:

She goes.  Picard activates his desktop viewscreen.

ADMIRAL KATHRYN JANEWAY appears on Picard's monitor.  Janeway

is the former captain of Voyager.  Her new rank fits her

well, she has lost none of her dry humor and down-to-earth

charm which made her a household name and beloved cult

figure.

The transmission ends.

Picard sits for a moment, intrigued.  Then he goes to the

bridge

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard goes to his command chair:

The crew is shocked.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACE

And the Enterprise jumps to high warp -- disappearing in a

flash of dazzling light.  Yes!

INT.  ENTERPRISE - OBSERVATION LOUNGE - DAY

Data conducts a briefing for the senior officers.  Monitors

currently show an image of Romulus and Remus in orbit around

their sun.

Various grainy and unclear new images appear to illustrate

Data's words:

Very obscure images of Remans appear, the crew can barely

make out the monstrous figures:

Picard considers this.

The images end.  There are no images of Shinzon.

The meeting breaks up.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - ENGINEERING LAB - DAY

The B-9 stares placidly forward.

We pull back and discover that computer conduits connect the

B-9's head to Data's head.  Geordi monitors the connection.

Geordi completes his work

Geordi removes the computer connections from between their

heads.  He carefully closes the panel in Data's head as:

He looks blankly at the console lights.

Data glances to Geordi.

Data has been studying some circuitry in the B-9's neck.

Data looks at the B-9 with a sort of sadness.

Data stands.  The B-9 stands to follow.

The B-9 sits.  Data goes.  Geordi watches him go.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - OVER ROMULUS - SPACE

The Enterprise is in orbit around Romulus.  Remus can be seen

in the distance.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The crew is tense.  Silence.

Worf, at tactical, slowly stretches his neck.  Trying to

release the tension.  It cracks.  Deanna jumps a bit.

Picard stands and walks to the viewscreen.  He gazes at

Romulus below and the black infinity of space beyond.

They're out there, Waiting.

And on the viewscreen.

Shinzon's magnificent Reman Warbird, the SCIMITAR, decloaks

directly before the Enterprise.

EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - SPACE

Our first sight of this incredible ship is absolutely

breathtaking.

Shinzon's vessel combines the clean lines of the traditional

Romulan Warbird with unique weaponry and styling.  It is

huge, easily twice as large as the Enterprise.  And it is

aggressive.  Awesome in its power.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The crew gapes at the huge ship on the viewscreen.

And the image on the viewscreen transforms to:

Shinzon's Viceroy.

He stands on the Scimitar's bridge.  The bridge is as unique

as the rest of Shinzon's ship.  Instead of the usual

mechanical clutter, this bridge is designed with an almost

Asian simplicity.  Like the rest of Reman design, it is spare

and elegant.

Since the Remans are more comfortable in the darkness, most

of the light comes from the three steadily pulsing warp core

relays which dramatically soar up through the floor of the

bridge.

The crew gazes at the bridge and the monstrous features of

the viceroy.

The transmission ends abruptly.  The Scimitar reappears on

the viewscreen.

Picard, Riker, Deanna, Worf and Data head toward the

turbolift, energized now that the endless waiting is over.

INT.  SCIMITAR - OBSERVATION LOUNGE - NIGHT

The away team materializes in the most striking location on

Shinzon's ship: a large observation lounge.

It is a huge, empty chamber.  No furniture.  A simple Reman

mat on the floor is the only decoration.  At the very top of

the room there is a large, etched glass dome.

It is very dark.

They turn when Shinzon speaks from the shadows:

Shinzon moves toward them a bit, becoming slightly more

illuminated, the low light shining off his golden hair.

The crew cannot see him clearly in the dim light but it is

evident he is human.  Assuming that he was Reman, they're

surprised by this realization.

Shinzon just stares at Picard through the darkness for a

moment.

Data scans him with a tricorder as:

Shinzon laughs, maniacally.

Shinzon does not answer.  He is staring deeply at Deanna,

moans softly.

He slowly moves toward her, still hidden in the shadows.

Shinzon moves even closer to Deanna, not taking his eyes from

her.

Shinzon continues to stare at Deanna.  It is strangely

seductive.  Almost disquieting in its intensity.  Deanna

handles it with grace, her level gaze never leaving his.

Picard and the others are stunned.

A beat.

Lights shoot up around the room.

For the first time the crew can see Shinzon clearly.  Picard

actually gasps when he sees Shinzon's face.  The rest of the

crew doesn't understand his reaction.

Picard watches him carefully.  Wary and strangely intense.

The crew is dumbfounded at Picard's unusual reaction.

He steps toward Picard who holds his ground.

Picard stares at him with a mixture of realization and

curiosity.  It is as if Picard is looking into a strange,

remembered mirror: Shinzon's face is nearly identical to his

at that age.

A beat.

The crew is utterly confused.  Their confusion turns to

outright shock when Shinzon calmly pulls out a Reman knife

and cuts his arm, drawing a little blood.  He hands the knife

to Data.

Picard touches his communicator pin:

They dematerialize, the shimmering glow illuminating

Shinzon's features.  Picard's eyes never leave Shinzon as

the transporter effect ripples around him.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - SICKBAY - DAY

Beverly stands with Picard, Riker and Deanna.  The Reman

knife is under a protonmicroscope and other medical readouts

and analysis are visible.

A beat as the confirmation sinks in.

He goes, Deanna following.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - CORRIDOR - FOLLOWING

He goes.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - RIKER AND DEANNA'S CABIN - NIGHT

Riker is hard at work over a series of padds.  He has been

working for hours.

Riker tosses a padd on the desk.  Rubs his eyes.  Looks up

her.

She smiles and goes to him.

She pulls him up.

They kiss deeply.  She pulls him across the room and they

fall into the bed.

It is passionate, erotic.  Her arms undulate around him

sensually... her fingers snake through his hair, but

something is wrong.  Riker's hair is now blond.

She starts back, her eyes growing wide.

Riker is gone.  She is now embracing Shinzon!

He caresses her face...

He kisses her neck -- but when he raises his head again.  It

is the monstrous Viceroy!  Holding her.  Caressing her.  She

is frozen in horror.  But is it the Viceroy at all?

Shinzon's voice seems to come from the Viceroy's lips:

And then it is Shinzon again, kissing her:

She pushes him away...

It is Riker.  She stares at him, then clings to him

desperately.

EXT.  ROMULAN SENATE - DAY

The Byzantine splendors of the Senate loom before us.

INT.  ROMULAN SENATE CHAMBER - DAY

Heavy drapes are drawn against any hint of the sun.  Shinzon

is in conference with the Romulan Commanders and Senator

Tal'Aura.  Commander Donatra watches him closely.

Commander Suran is angry, pacing.  Shinzon stands.  His

Viceroy lurks in a corner.

A tense beat.  Shinzon regains his composure.

Suran and the others go.

Donatra turns just as she is leaving the chamber, she sees

the Viceroy going to Shinzon.  And then do something odd.

The Viceroy puts his hand on Shinzon's chest, leans very

close and talks to him quietly.  This is an ancient form of

Reman telepathic medical diagnosis.

This strange sight perplexes Donatra.  The doors close,

blocking her view...

INT.  SENATE - CORRIDOR - FOLLOWING

We go with Donatra and the other Romulans.  Donatra speaks

quietly to Suran:

INT.  ENTERPRISE - DATA'S CABIN - DAY

The B-9 sits placidly in a chair, staring forward.

Then, as if a switch was thrown, he moves.  He quickly rises

and goes to a computer console.  He efficiently starts

punching in commands at an amazing velocity.

INT.  ROMULAN SENATE CHAMBER - NIGHT

Picard and Shinzon sit alone in a corner of the sweeping

Senate chamber.  The remains of dinner before them.

Picard pours a glass of Romulan ale.

A beat.  They look at each other.

A beat.  He glances to the Romulan crest on the wall.

Picard is impressed with Shinzon's quiet words.

A beat.

A beat.

They both reach for a carafe of water at the exact same

instant.  Stop.

Picard smiles, pours a glass.

A quiet beat.

A beat.

INT.  SENATE CHAMBER - LATER

Picard is gone.  Shinzon sits, thinking.  His Viceroy enters.

A tense beat.

INT.  ENTERPRISE  BRIDGE - NIGHT

Picard emerges from the turbolift.  Data, Worf and Geordi

wait at the bridge engineering station.

Picard is shocked.

INT.  SICKBAY - NIGHT

Picard stands, concerned, with Beverly, Geordi and Data.

Monitors showing Thalaron research are visible.

Picard goes.  Data thinks for a moment.

He and Geordi head out.  Beverly returns to some medical

displays showing Thalaron research, her expression deeply

concerned.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - PICARD'S CABIN - NIGHT

Picard is sitting at his desk, flipping through an old photo

album.  He stops and stares at one of the pictures deeply

troubled.  We finally see the photo: Young Jean Luc Picard.

A serious, unsmiling cadet at Starfleet Academy.  The face

before him bears a disturbing resemblance to Shinzon.

The door comm chirps.

She sits, notes the picture of Young Jean Luc.

He rises, goes to a window, gazes at the Scimitar in the

distance.  A beat.

Data interrupts on comm:

He goes.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - TURBOLIFT - MORNING

Deanna is alone on the turbolift.  Then a voice makes her

spin:

Shinzon stands across from her.

He pushes her against the wall, with passion and almost

violence.

She forces herself to concentrate... to resist

telepathically... it is a mighty effort... this Romulan is

hot.  And the world around her appears to be changing...

bending...

And she is momentarily in a cabin on the Scimitar.  Although

entirely a telepathic experience, it is as if she has

actually traveled.

She sees Shinzon kneeling over a small flame, she realizes

she is looking through the Viceroy's eyes.

On the Scimitar, Shinzon looks up at the Viceroy/Deanna:

Then the world changes again...

Deanna is on the turbolift.  Shinzon is pressed against her,

whispering:

She forces him away from her and --

She is alone.  She sinks to her knees.  Overcome with

emotion.

INT.  SCIMITAR - VICEROY'S CABIN - FOLLOWING

The Viceroy, in a kind of trace, kneels before a small flame.

Shinzon kneels across from him.  The Viceroy raises his head.

A Reman officer interrupts on comm:

He begins to go -- but suddenly stops, a wave of illness

overtaking him.

The Viceroy puts his hand on Shinzon's chest.  A strange

moment as the Viceroy shuts his eyes and feels Shinzon's

chest.  His mind... probing.

Then the Viceroy looks up at him, grim.

He goes.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - DAY

Shinzon stands with some REMAN ENGINEERS.

An Engineer activates a transporter and the B-9 materializes!

Reman engineers go to the B-9 and open the panel in his neck,

begin connecting computer conduits to the extra memory port

we saw earlier.

(Note: Although the audience will not know it yet, this is

actually Data pretending to be the B-9.)

Shinzon goes to a replicator unit and orders:

A cup of tea appears.  He takes it and sips as he watches his

Engineers connecting the conduits to the B-9.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - SICKBAY - DAY

Beverly is scanning Deanna.  Picard and Riker watch,

concerned.

She looks at Picard, tears in her eyes.

Riker takes her hand.

But before the words are out of his mouth... he begins to

dematerialize!

But Picard is gone.

EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - SPACE

The Scimitar cloaks.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIG - NIGHT

Picard stands in the Reman brig.  His communicator pin has

been removed.

Beyond the security force field a ghoulish medical apparatus

is being prepared.  A metal chair with laser scalpels, IV

tubes and hyposprays connected to it.  Reman doctors work

over the mysterious chair.

Shinzon enters with the B-9 following.  Shinzon stands on the

other side of the force field.

Picard notices something immediately.  Tiny veins are now

visible on Shinzon's face; the faintest sign of an intricate

spider-web pattern of pale blue veins.

He nods to a guard.  The guard deactivates the force field.

A Reman doctor enters and raises a hypospray toward Picard.

The Doctor takes a quick sample of Picard's blood as Picard

glances to the B-9.

The Reman doctor leaves the cell.  The force field is

reactivated.  The doctor goes to the mysterious medical

apparatus and analyzes Picard's blood.  As:

The B-9 obediently leaves the room as:

Shinzon looks at him deeply.

He turns to go.

Shinzon turns back to him.

A beat.  Picard gazes at him evenly.

Picard's probing gaze makes Shinzon a bit uneasy.  He glances

to the ghoulish medical preparations.

He goes.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - NIGHT

The ship is on Red Alert.  Worf stands at tactical, muscles

coiled, hungry for action.

Geordi is hard at work at the Science station.  Riker stands

over him:

Beverly arrives on the bridge, urgent.  She carries a medical

padd.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIG - NIGHT

Picard stands in his cell, peering at the edges of the

security force field, trying to spot any weakness.

Then the B-9 enters the brig, he holds a Reman disruptor

weapon.

The Reman Guard deactivates the force field.

He leads Picard out.

INT.  SCIMITAR - CORRIDORS - FOLLOWING

The B-9 leads Picard through the dark corridors, holding the

disruptor on him steadily.  All the Remans they pass glare at

Picard with undisguised loathing.

The Viceroy approaches.  Stops before them.

The Viceroy turns his malevolent gaze on Picard.

The B-9 prods Picard's back roughly with the disruptor.

Picard grimaces in pain

The Viceroy continues away down the corridor.  The B-9 leads

Picard along.

And the audience now realizes it is Data pretending to be the

B-9 and rejoices.

They are silent as they pass a few Reman guards.  Then:

Data assumes the B-9's posture again as they pass some some

Reman Warriors.

They pass the Warriors.

He leads Picard down the corridor.

INT.  SCIMITAR - GENERATION CHAMBER - NIGHT

Data leads Picard into a massive chamber that soars up like a

cathedral.  It is the size of a small town.

The whole, cavernous chamber pulses with glowing green light.

High above them, at the very top of the chamber, is a

gigantic version of the spider-weapon we saw kill all the

Romulan Senators before.  It is breathtaking.

Data rotates his left hand and then slides it forward,

exposing a hidden compartment in his wrist.  He removes a

small, silver disc.  This is a cool new piece of Federation

technology called an ETU.  (Emergency Transport Unit.)

Data inserts the ETU back into his wrist and they leave the

chamber.

INT.  SCIMITAR BRIDGE - NIGHT

The Viceroy arrives on the bridge, stops.

Shinzon looks at him, confused.

INT.  SCIMITAR - CORRIDORS - NIGHT

Security alert klaxons suddenly begin to howl and harsh Reman

commands are broadcast through the corridors.

They sprint down the twisting, dark corridors -- Reman

warriors suddenly appear before them! -- Data fires the

disruptor as Picard launches himself into them --

A fight -- Picard uses a dazzlinq series of Starfleet hand-

to-hand maneuvers -- he dramatically subdues the Remans.

More Reman warriors appear down the corridor.  Picard grabs a

disruptor.

And instantly spins to fire a blazing disruptor.  A battle

breaks out in the corridor -- the energy beams and explosions

illuminating the violent fire fight in strobe-like bursts.

They run to another corridor and finally arrive at the

shuttlebay door -- it does not open.

Reman warriors are closing in on them.

Data tosses his disruptor to Picard -- Picard catches it and

instantly spins and fires -- he uses both disruptors to fire

down both ends of the corridor like a Western sheriff --

keeping the Remans at bay --

As Data uses both hands to punch numbers into the shuttlebay

door security panel at an amazing rate --

The shuttlebay door slides open.

Picard lays down a blistering barrage of cover fire as he and

Data duck into the shuttlebay.

INT.  SCIMITAR - SHUTTLEBAY - FOLLOWING

When the door closes behind them, Picard turns and fires a

disruptor blast -- sealing the door mechanism.

They turn to face...

A fleet of very small shuttles.  They are uniquely designed.

Extremely compact and stream-lined.  A disruptor turret on

each.

They move toward one as:

They quickly climb a Scorpion.

INT.  SCORPION COCKPIT - SHUTTLEBAY - FOLLOWING

The cockpit of the Scorpion is cramped.  Picard climbs into

the pilot's position.  Data assumes the gunner's position.

They see disruptor fire trying to burn through the door to

the shuttlebay -- Picard powers up the Scorpion as:

Picard shoots him a look and presses some controls.  The

Scorpion lifts off.  Hovers a few feet over the deck.  Picard

elegantly swings it around toward the large shuttlebay

external doors as:

He swings the Scorpion around again so it is facing the doors

they came through, the doors back into the ship.

Data is dubious.

And the Scorpion's forward disruptors fire!  The doors into

the ship explode!  Picard powers forward!

INT.  SCIMITAR CORRIDORS - FOLLOWING

And the Scorpion shoots into the corridor, past the stunned

Remans.  Picard banks sharply -- careens off the far side of

the corridor but keeps control.

The Scorpion zooms down the corridor.

INT.  SCORPION COCKPIT - SCIMITAR - FOLLOWING

Picard is concentrating intensely -- it is like trying to

control the world's fastest roller coaster.

INT.  SCIMITAR - CORRIDORS - FOLLOWING

The Scorpion banks around a corner --it zigs and zags through

the ship at breakneck speed --

INT.  SCIMITAR - OBSERVATION LOUNGE - NIGHT

The doors to the observation lounge EXPLODE in.

The Scorpion SHOOTS into the room and up --

A disruptor blast SHATTERS the etched glass dome at the top

of the room --

And the Scorpion ZOOMS triumphantly into space!

EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - SPACE

The Scorpion seems to appear from nowhere -- slicing through

the cloak of invisibility around the Scimitar --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The crew sees the Scorpion appear on the viewscreen.

INT.  SCIMITAR BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon sees the Scorpion as well.

EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - SPACE

But they are too late -- the Scorpion dematerializes --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - CARGO BAY - FOLLOWING

And materializes in one of the Enterprise's cargo bays.

Picard and Data climb out --

EXT.  OVER ROMULUS - FOLLOWING

The Enterprise dramatically powers forward and up -- rolling

over in a great arc going into warp while still upside down.

It disappears in a blaze of light.  Fade to...

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - NIGHT

Shinzon sits in his command chair as the ship streaks through

space.  He speaks on viewscreen with his Romulan

collaborators.  His face is even more finely veined now.

Shinzon stands and briskly pulls down his uniform tunic

exactly as we've seen Picard do a thousand times.

INT.  ROMULAN SENATE - CHAMBER - FOLLOWING

The viewscreen picture of Shinzon snaps out.  The Romulan sit

for a silent beat.

They look at her.

A beat.

She turns and stalks out.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - READY ROOM - NIGHT

Beverly sits with Picard and Riker.

Picard considers this.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - DATA'S CABIN - NIGHT

Data stands before the B-9.

The B-9 has been deactivated, he stands lifeless and

immobile.  Data gazes deeply into his double's identical

features.  Then he opens a panel in the B-9's neck and uses a

small instrument to activate the android's head.

The B-9's eyes spring to life.  He looks at Data.

A beat.

A beat.  Data gazes at the B-9 deeply.

Data reaches forward and deactivates his brother.

The B-9's eyes lose the spark of life.  He stands, frozen.

Data stands before him.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - OBSERVATION LOUNGE - NIGHT

Picard is gathered with his senior officers.

A computer display illustrates Geordi's words about the power

of Shinzon's weapon.  We see a chilling graphic of the

Biogenic Pulse beam spreading around a ship, then a whole

planet.

A beat.

A beat as he looks at them gravely.

Riker knows exactly what Picard is saying: the Enterprise is

expendable.

Picard stands.  Presses a comm button.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - VARIOUS ANGLES

We see a montage of the Enterprise preparing for battle.

Crew members assume battle stations.  Weapons locker ring

open and Security Officers hand out sidearms and phaser

rifles.

Geordi and his Engineers establish emergency force field

around the warp core.

Riker and Worf brief officers on tactical plans...

Data works at the bridge Science Station, analyzing data on

Shinzon's ship.

Picard walks through the corridors, he stops to talk with

apprehensive young ensign.

As we hear:

The montage ends as...

INT.  ENTERPRISE - SICKBAY - NIGHT

Picard enters sickbay.

Dr. Crusher and her medical staff are hard at work.  They

position anti-grav gurneys and ready medical supplies.

Security officers are handing out phasers.

Picard watches the grim preparations.  Beverly goes to him,

bolstering her phaser.

He starts to go --

A beat.

She watches him go.

INT.  SCIMITAR BRIDGE - NIGHT

Shinzon sits in his command chair, lined with veins now.

His Viceroy again has his hand pressed to Shinzon's chest.

Shinzon shoves him away.  Stands.

Shinzon slams his command chair in fury.  The Viceroy watches

him carefully.

A beat.  Shinzon regains his composure.  He sits again in his

command chair.

Shinzon leans back, satisfied.  And looks at the viewscreen.

The image on the viewscreen is shocking.

The Enterprise only a few hundred yards away.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACE

The Enterprise zooms through space.

Completely unaware of the predator directly above it.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - ASTROMETRICS - NIGHT

Data is at work in Astrometry.  Cartographic projections of

star systems ebb and flow on a large screen before him.

Picard enters.

The images before them quickly change to show another sector

and a blip representing the Enterprise.

The images before them change to show sector 3274.  We see

blips denoting Starfleet ships moving into position.

Picard gazes at the projection of stars before them for a

moment.

A beat.

Picard's words linger in the air for a moment.

Then the projections before them sputter with static for a

moment.  Flickering.

Too late.

The ship QUAKES -- a photon torpedo blast -- the Enterprise

is under attack!

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

Disruptor beams appear from nowhere -- streaking through

space -- slamming into the Enterprise's warp drive.  The

Enterprise recoils, dangerously dropping out of warp in a

furious lurch.

The Bassen Rift is a strange area of electromagnetic

distortion.  Energy patterns crackle through space.

INT.  SCIMITAR BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon sits in his command chair.  The viewscreen shows the

Enterprise before him.

On the viewscreen, we see disruptor blasts streaking from the

Scimitar -- slicing into the Enterprise.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard and Data emerge from the turbolift as the ship

ROCKS --

The ship SHUDDERS again --

The ship ROCKS again.

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The Enterprise fires her phasers simultaneously -- the energy

beams shoot into space --

And the Scimitar's shape is momentarily illuminated as one of

its shields is hit.

Photon torpedoes immediately shoot from the Enterprise -- but

pass harmlessly through the area where the Scimitar's shields

were momentarily illuminated.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The invisible Warbird makes a dramatic run straight over the

Enterprise -- firing steadily down as it sweeps past it; is a

brutal, close range assault --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The bridge SHAKES violently under the ruthless attack--

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The Enterprise instantly complies -- Rolling completely over

to the left, firing phasers up as Shinzon's invisible ship

streaks above it --

A few lucky phaser shots from the bottom of the Enterprise --

now shooting upward -- manage to momentarily illuminate the

bottom shields of the Scimitar as it sweeps past above.

INT.  ENTERPRISE BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon appears on the viewscreen.  He is on the bridge of

the Scimitar.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - READY ROOM

Picard stands in his Ready Room.  A flickering light shimmers

across the room.  And a perfect holographic representation of

Shinzon appears before him.

Picard looks at him deeply, relentlessly refusing to give up.

Picard steps toward him.

Shinzon slowly backs away as Picard continues to move toward

him relentlessly.

Shinzon is in turmoil.  Picard senses this.  He proceeds

quietly:

Shinzon looks at him, questioning.

Shinzon doesn't respond.

Shinzon doesn't respond.  But Picard knows he has made a

connection.  For this brief moment reconciliation is

possible.  He proceeds quietly:

Shinzon looks at him with an aching sadness.  What might have

been.

Shinzon backs away, unable to fight his nature:

Shinzon ends the transmission and his holographic image

flickers and fades away.

Picard stands alone, drained.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon strides quickly to his command chair, barking to his

Viceroy:

But before the Viceroy can move the Scimitar suddenly ROCKS

-- attacked from somewhere!  Shinzon is stunned.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard strides to his command chair as two Romulan Warbirds

appear on the viewscreen.  Deanna is now on the bridge.

On the viewscreen: Commander Donatra shimmers into view.

On the viewscreen, the Valdore ROCKS from a disruptor blast.

The transmission ends.

(The Romulan Warbirds must remain decloaked to fire weapons

and are visible throughout the battle.)

Although Shinzon's ship is still cloaked, the steady barrage

of triangulated phaser and disruptor fire from the Enterprise

and the two Romulan vessels illuminate its shields with

impacts.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The Enterprise ROCKS from a photon torpedo impact --

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon sits quite calmly in his command chair.

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

It is a chaos of starships as the Enterprise and the two

Warbirds fire steadily -- illuminating the Scimitar's

shields.

The ships sweep around one another, maneuvering for position,

firing constantly.  The battlefield seems impossibly crowded

as the four vessels evade and attack; as phaser and disruptor

beams criss-cross space.

Then the Scimitar unleashes a devastating volley... all her

forward disruptor banks fire at once --

They literally cut one of the Romulan ships in half -- a huge

EXPLOSION -- debris SHOOTS across space and SLAMS VIOLENTLY

off the Enterprise's forward shields -- !

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The ship ROCKS dangerously!

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The Enterprise quickly turns about -- firing her aft phasers,

as the Valdore sweeps toward Shinzon's ship, firing --

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

INT.  VALDORE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Donatra leans forward in her command chair, looking at

viewscreen.  She sees part of the Scimitar's rear cloakning

fall away --

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

On the viewscreen  we see the Valdore in pursuit, gaining.

The Reman crew is getting nervous.

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The Scimitar LURCHES to a stop!  Too fast for the Valdore to

respond in time -- it flies over the Scimitar --

And the Scimitar fires!

A devastating volley of photon torpedoes rip into the

underbelly and aft of the Valdore as it streaks past --

The Valdore careens out of control and then slows to a stop.

It floats dead in space.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

He leans back in his command chair, ready for the final

battle.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

A bloody Commander Donatra is talking to Picard on

viewscreen.  Her bridge is in ruins.

Then the ship ROCKS --

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The invisible Scimitar sweeps past for a particularly brutal

assault -- disruptor blasts streak along the Enterprise's

hull -- a huge, ripping series of explosions tear away

several decks of the Enterprise --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Deanna goes to Picard:

She quickly goes to Worf at tactical.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - NIGHT

Shinzon is entering tactical commands in his chair console.

Then the viceroy suddenly stiffens, alarm in his eyes --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Deanna concentrates furiously, eyes closed.  She stands with

Worf, her hand slowly moving his over the photon torpedo

targeting display.

It is a wrenching experience as she probes with her thoughts.

She is in pain.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The Viceroy concentrates, trying to block her probing

thoughts.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Deanna continues to move Worf's hand over the targeting

display.  She is sweating, panting for breath, concentrating

fiercely.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The Viceroy resists her -- their psyches lock in battle.

Deanna appears in the Viceroy's mind, she glares at him.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Her eyes snap open --

Worf instantly fires a full volley of photon torpedoes.

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

A full spread of photon torpedoes shoot through space.

And connect!  A series of devastating impacts -- and the

Scimitar's cloak fails!

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard stands quickly.

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

And the Enterprise attacks!

It fires all weapons simultaneously -- phasers and photon

torpedoes slam into the Scimitar!  Shinzon's ship responds

quickly -- maneuvering for position and returning fire!

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The bridge has been damaged, sparks sputter through the

darkness and debris litters the deck.

Shinzon eyes reflect a growing sense of desperation.

The viceroy strides out as Shinzon spins to another officer.

On the viewscreen, we see disruptor beams focusing on a tiny

part of the Enterprise's lower shields, slamming into them.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - NIGHT

An alarm klaxon suddenly rings through the bridge.

Riker and Worf quickly head toward the turbolift as:

Data immediately assumes Worf's position at tactical.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - LOWER DECKS - NIGHT

Riker and Worf stride with a SECURITY DETAIL through the

cramped lower decks.

A sudden disruptor blast stops them cold!  The Viceroy and

his invasion force of a dozen Reman Warriors are down the

corridor!

The Enterprise crew returns fire.  It is a blazing phaser

battle, Worf leading his men with Klingon courage.  They

steadily advance in the face of the blistering disruptor

fire --

They are getting the upper hand when Riker sees the Viceroy

escape into a Jefferies tube --

Worf instantly dives into the corridor -- landing hard and

sliding forward on his stomach all the while firing a steady

burst from his phaser rifle.

Riker uses the cover to dive after the Viceroy, following him

into the dark Jefferies tube, intent on destroying the man

who has been tormenting his wife --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The Scimitar sweeps into view on the viewscreen -- filling

the screen -- and launches a ferocious volley of photon

torpedoes.

A huge EXPLOSION as the viewscreen and some of the forward

bridge are BLOWN APART -- the Helm Officer is SUCKED INTO

SPACE before a flickering emergency force field springs into

position --

Deanna races to assume the helm --

Picard can now see his enemy directly through the gaping hole

in the ship's hull -- he sees the Scimitar banking for

another attack run as part of the ship disappears --

Picard thinks.

Through the hole in the hull, Picard sees the Scimitar slowly

turning.  Slowly advancing.  They see another part of the

Scimitar disappear, the cloak returning.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - JEFFERIES TUBE - FOLLOWING

Below decks, Riker stalks the Viceroy through a labyrinthine

series of access tunnels.  It is like a scene from ALIEN.

The flickering half-light and red emergency strobes of the

crippled ship make this an ominous sequence.  The Viceroy is

in his element, used to the perpetual night of the Reman

Homeworld, he can see in the dark.

Riker moves through the darkness, hunting for the Viceroy.

He stops, phaser ready.  He peers into the dark tunnel ahead

of him.  Sees nothing.  We tilt up and see...

The Viceroy clinging to the ceiling directly above Riker!

Hidden in the darkness.  The Viceroy attacks! -- diving down

on Riker -- his lethal Reman knife slashing through the

darkness --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard stands... watching the Scimitar maneuver into

position.  Large parts of it are now cloaked.

It stops.  Only a few hundred yards from the Enterprise, its

great prow almost filling the gaping hole at the front of the

bridge.

Picard thinks, his mind racing.  Then it comes to him in a

flash:

He sits in his command chair and begins quickly entering

command instructions in his chair console.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon, supremely confident, leans back in his command

chair.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard is still entering commands in his chair console.

Picard continues to enter command codes -- transmits them to

Deanna at helm -- she receives the commands, nods.  All of

this as Picard buys some time:

Picard indicates for Data to end the communication.  Then:

Picard leans forward in his chair:

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The Enterprise powers forward in a final thrust -- !

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon sees it coming -- utterly shocked -- bolts up --

Too late.

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

A massive COLLISION as the Enterprise SLAMS into the Scimitar

-- as it SMASHES and GRINDS into Shinzon's ship --

The Scimitar REELS --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Everyone goes FLYING!

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The two great ships are now locked together, slowly rotating

in space.

The forward part of the Enterprise's saucer is enmeshed in

Shinzon's ship; two scorpions with their claws locked.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon stands in the ruins of his bridge.  Many of his

bridge crew are now dead.

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

Every part of the Enterprise ROCKS -- a great lurch as the

Scimitar begins to tear itself free -- backing away -- a

deafening shriek of metal -- both ships are being torn to

pieces in the process -- but it is working -- the Scimitar

is ripping free, wrenching itself loose.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - JEFFERIES TUBES - FOLLOWING

The Jefferies tube SHUDDERS as the Scimitar continues to tear

itself free -- Riker and the Viceroy careen through the tube.

The Viceroy recovers quickly and coils for a final attack.

Riker sees that an access plate has been loosened in the

collision -- he desperately rips it away -- knowing the

relays behind will provide him with the advantage he needs --

Bright light strobes from the relays and the Viceroy is

momentarily blinded -- Riker uses this opportunity to attack!

He dives forward -- slamming into the Viceroy -- they both

tumble into a long, vertical access tunnel -- they fall!

Riker shoots out a hand and grabs a ladder -- the Viceroy,

grabs onto Riker, his talons digging into his uniform -- a

long drop below them!

Riker forces the Viceroy's head back -- away from him -- a

brutal struggle --

Riker glares at him.

Riker uses every ounce of strength he has left -- pushes the

Viceroy off him --

The Viceroy falls down the long tunnel -- to his death.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

The whole Enterprise bridge QUAKES as the Scimitar continues

to pull itself free --

Picard stands, steadying himself on his command chair.

Data joins Picard as:

Then the ship gives a final LURCH.  The Scimitar is free.

An eerie moment of silence after the explosive tearing and

grinding.

Picard watches through the gaping hole in the hull as the

Scimitar backs away.  Another section of the Scimitar

disappears.  Shinzon almost has his cloak back.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Shinzon stares at the Enterprise.

A wave of sickness overcomes him for a moment, he doubles

over.  We actually see more veins appearing on his face.

Time is running out.

A beat.  Shinzon looks up.

Shinzon gazes at the Enterprise on the viewscreen.

EXT.  RIFT - SPACE

The entire Scimitar slowly begins to unfold.  Like a gigantic

version of the small spider-weapon we saw kill the Romulan

Senators before, legs appear and hoist up a savage weapon.

The Cascading Pulse.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard and the others watch the monstrous Cascading Pulse

weapon slowly deploying.

Picard's face is set, resolute.  He knows what he must do.

Picard grabs a phaser rifle from a weapons locker as...

Deanna takes Data's arm.  Looks at him.  She knows this is

something Picard must do himself.

Picard powers up the phaser rifle as:

Geordi nervously works some controls on his console and

Picard dematerializes.  Then the transporter panel explodes

in a shower of sparks.

Data thinks for a moment.  Then:

He heads toward the turbolift, Geordi following.

INT.  SCIMITAR - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Several Remen warriors in the corridor turn and fire.  Riker

returns fire, a series of lightning fast pulses from his

phaser rifle.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - FORWARD CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Data and Geordi stand in a long corridor.  The far end of the

corridor opens to space.  An emergency force field is in

place at the end of the corridor.

Geordi operates a tricorder and another force field flickers

on around him.

Data looks toward the end of the corridor, readying himself.

Data backs up a little more   He looks at Geordi again.

Deeply.

Geordi operates his tricorder and the force field at the end

of the corridor snaps off --

The void of space fills the corridor and Data takes a running

start -- he races down the long corridor and leaps --

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

-- into space.

He floats toward the Scimitar, his momentum carrying him.

Carrying him too far!

He is going to miss the Scimitar -- almost past it now!  He

thrusts out a hand --

And just misses a piece of dangling wreckage!  Data is

floating helplessly through space.  Doomed.  Then he SLAMS

into an invisible piece of the partially cloaked on the ship!

He grabs onto the invisible part of the ship and pulls

himself up to the hull.  He rips open an access panel with

his superior strength and climbs inside.

INT.  SCIMITAR - BRIDGE - NIGHT

Shinzon stands, his eyes glued to the Enterprise on the

viewscreen.

We see a monitor showing that the Cascading Pulse weapon is

locked on the Enterprise.

Most of the light on the shattered bridge now comes from the

three steadily pulsing warp core relays which soar up through

the floor.

Suddenly -- a MASSIVE BLAST as the doors to the bridge

explode in.  Shinzon spins to see --

Picard framed in the doorway, phaser rifle ready.

Picard instantly fires for the Cascading Pulse control -- but

Shinzon dives to cover it -- the phaser blast hits Shinzon in

the chest -- he recoils, slamming to the deck, stunned.

The few remaining Remans on the bridge spin to Picard, firing

disruptors -- Picard dives for cover and battles them with

his phaser rifle --

He succeeds in stunning the Remans but a final disruptor

blast knocks Picard to the deck -- the phaser rifle spins

away --

Shinzon pulls himself up and races to snatch up a disruptor

from a fallen comrade --

As Picard leaps up, grabbing a piece of wreckage, a long

metal rod -- Picard thrusts it forward like a spear --

Impaling Shinzon.

A stunned moment of silence as Shinzon gazes at Picard,

almost with a look of disbelief.  Blood spews from his mouth

as he lets out a tormented cry.

And then, amazingly, Shinzon forces himself forward --

pushing Picard back against a wall -- Shinzon slowly walks

toward Picard, forcing himself down the length of the spear

-- the spear point explodes through Shinzon's back -- the

weight of Shinzon's body is pinning Picard against the wall

-- time is running out --

Shinzon forces himself down the spear:

He finally thrusts himself down the whole spear and clasps

his dying hands firmly around Picard's throat --

Data sprints to the bridge --

He instantly tears open his wrist and pulls out the small,

silver disc we saw earlier -- the Emergency Transport Unit --

he slaps it on Picard's shoulder.  A final look between

them --

Data activates the ETU -- Picard dematerializes.

Data looks at the space where Picard was and says simply:

Then he spins and pulls out his phaser --

And fires point-blank into the Scimitar's warp core relays --

the bridge explodes -- Data is incinerated --

EXT.  THE RIFT - SPACE

The Scimitar BLASTS APART in a massive flash --

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

Picard re-materializes.

He sees the brilliant flash from the explosion through the

gaping hole in the front of the bridge.

Deanna sits at helm, her face a mask of pain.  Geordi stands

on the upper rear deck, head down.

A long beat as Picard just stands on his ruined bridge, the

thousand-yard stare of a combat veteran in his eyes.

Riker emerges from the turbolift.  Goes to Picard.

Picard doesn't answer, he just stares forward.  Deanna goes

to Riker.

Riker looks toward the glowing debris field in the distance.

He puts an arm around Deanna.

Silence.

The transmission ends.

He turns and heads toward his Ready Room.

The others watch him go with great sadness.

When the Ready Room doors close behind Picard, Deanna finally

allows herself to cry.  Riker holds her closely.  Slow fade

to...

INT.  ENTERPRISE - CREW LOUNGE - NIGHT

Hours later.  The senior crew is solemnly gathered in the

shattered remains of the crew lounge.  Picard, Riker, Deanna,

Beverly, Worf, Geordi.

They wear their dress uniforms.

Picard goes to each of them.  He carries a small, metal box.

They each take something from the box.

At first we, don't quite see what they are doing.  Then we

realize they are affixing black bars to the collars of their

uniforms.

Mourning bands.

Picard pours six glasses of his precious Chateau Picard.

Each takes a glass.

Picard raises his glass.

They toast Data.  Slow fade to...

INT.  ENTERPRISE - PICARD'S CABIN - NIGHT

Picard sits at his desk, speaking quietly to someone we do

not see.

We see it is the now re-activated B-9 sitting across from

him.

Worf interrupts on comm:

The B-9 does not respond.  He is looking rather blankly at

the padd on Picard's desk.

Picard begins to leave when a sound stops him... humming.  He

turns back to the B-9.

The B-9 is still looking blankly at the padd... but he's

humming lightly to himself... then he begins to sing, very

softly...

Then the B-9 is silent.

Picard watches him for a moment; great emotion playing over

his features, and then goes.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Picard and Riker head toward a turbolift... making their way

past the debris littering the corridor.

Riker does not respond.

Picard stops, looks at Riker deeply.

A moment.

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACEDOCK - OVER EARTH

A few weeks later.  The Enterprise is enclosed in the great

womb of a spacedock.  The ship is being rebuilt.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - NIGHT

A fresh-faced young officer, COMMANDER MARTIN MADDEN, paces

nervously outside Picard's Ready Room.  Bracing himself

before entering.

Behind him we can see technicians working everywhere around

the bridge, trying to rebuild it.  Worf is talking to a young

officer at tactical and Geordi is working at the engineering

station.  We also see new command chairs being installed.

(Although we do not see it in this scene, the gaping hole at

the front of the bridge has not yet been repaired.)

A young Andorian woman, the new OPS OFFICER, smiles at

Madden's nervousness.  Her antennae twitch slightly in

amusement.  He sees her.

Commander Madden prepares himself.

INT.  ENTERPRISE - READY ROOM - FOLLOWING

Picard is talking to Beverly on viewscreen.  She is in her

new office at Starfleet Medical.

Commander Madden enters quickly -- he did not use the door

chime so Picard is surprised.

Picard stands, they shake hands as:

Picard heads toward the door, carrying a few padds.

Picard goes to the bridge, Madden following...

INT.  ENTERPRISE - BRIDGE - FOLLOWING

They emerge to the bridge as Worf is arguing with the cocky

young ENSIGN busy installing Picard's new high-tech command

chair.

Picard goes to them:

He settles into his new command chair.  Looks around for a

beat at his new bridge crew.  Fresh-faced kids.  A new

generation to teach and nurture.  He smiles.

Worf and Geordi exchange a look, surprised.

Picard presses a button on the chair and -- zip -- metal

restraints fly into position around his waist and shoulders.

Seatbelts!  Picard is surprised.

A beat.

Then Picard smiles.

He presses the button again and the restraints zip back into

the body of the chair.  He is delighted.  He turns to Madden:

Madden sits in the First Officer's chair, Picard shares a

padd with him.

And we cut to --

EXT.  ENTERPRISE - SPACEDOCK - OVER EARTH - FOLLOWING

Through the hole in the hull we see Picard talking to Madden.

Picard at work, at peace.  Where he is meant to be.

We slowly pull back from Picard and the Enterprise.  As we

hear the B-9's soft tones.  Gentle.  Hopeful.

We revolve away from the Enterprise and Earth toward the

stars.  Then ZOOM forward into the cosmos as the rousing

"Next Generation" theme explodes over END CREDITS.

