FINAL DRAFT

October 18, 1950

Converted to PDF by SCREENTALK

www.screentalk.org

FADE IN:

EXT. UNION STATION, WASHINGTON, D.C. DAY

LONG SHOT THE CAPITOL DOME IN THE B.G. AND THE AUTOMOBILE

ENTRANCE TO THE STATION IN THE F.G. LOW CAMERA

Activity of cars and taxis arriving and discharging passengers

with luggage, busy redcaps, etcetera.

We FOCUS on a taxi pulling up and stopping, The driver hands

out modest looking luggage, including a bunch of tennis

rackets in cases to a redcap. CAMERA PANS DOWN as the

passenger gets out of the taxi so that we see only his shoes

and the lower part of his trousers. He is wearing dark

colored brogues and a conservative suit apparently. The

feet move toward, the entrance to the station and out of

scene. Immediately a chauffeur-driven limousine drives up

and an expensive place of airplane luggage is handed out of

this, and the passenger alighting from the back is seen to

be wearing black and white sport shoes which, as before, are

all we see of him. The sport shoes start off in the wake of

the brogues.

INT. STATION LOBBY

CAMERA FOLLOWS the sport shoes and the brogues across the

lobby into a passenger tunnel. There is the usual activity

of passengers walking to and from, a loud-speaker announcing

trains, etc.

EXT. PASSENGER TUNNEL

As the brogues and the sport shoes emerge to the train

platform, CAMERA PANS them over to the steps of the train.

INT. TRAIN

The brogues and the sport shoes pass separately down the

aisle, the sport shoes turning in at a compartment door and

the brogues continuing toward the parlor car.

INT. PARLOR CAR (PROCESS)

The brogues come to rest before a chair as the owner sits

down. A moment later the sport shoes come to rest. before

in adjoining chair.

The legs belonging to the sport shoes stretch out, and one

of the shoes touches one of the brogues.

CAMERA PULLS BACK AND UP to SHOW two young men seated in two

parlor car chairs. BRUN0 ANTHONY, the wearer of the sport

shoes, is about twenty-five. He wears his expensive clothes

with the tweedy nonchalance of a young man who has always

had the best. The wearer of the brogues is a fine looking

but, at the moment, a somewhat troubled young man. This is

GUY HAINES. He, too, is in his middle twenties and is well

dressed because he can now afford to be. He nods politely,

acknowledging Bruno's apology, then turns away with the

gesture implying he wants privacy.

Guy nods with a polite half smile. Being a well known

tournament tennis player, he has had this sort of experience

before.

Guy acknowledges this with a modest nod and turns to his

magazine rolled up in is fist.

Guy tries to read but is uneasily aware of Bruno's open

appraisal.

Not knowing how to answer this, Guy looks a little

embarrassed.

Bruno is inordinately pleased by this small tribute.

He has taken out a cigarette case.   Holds it out to Guy.

He fumbles for a match.          Guy brings out a lighter and hands

it to Bruno.

CLOSE SHOT OF THE LIGHTER

Showing that it has the insignia of crossed rackets embossed

on it, and underneath is engraved the inscription: "To G

from A".

WIDER SHOT

Guy reacts sharply.

At the appeal on Bruno's face, Guy slowly relents.

Bruno smiles with and signals a waiter.

The waiter has brought the drinks. Bruno slips the lighter

into hip pocket to free his hands for the bills which he

gives to the waiter, waving away the change. He offers a

glass to Guy. Guy takes it.

The waiter is hovering impatiently.   Guy gives in out of

embarrassment.

Guy nods curtly.

INT. BRUNO'S COMPARTMENT ON TRAIN (PROCESS)

Bruno and Guy are finishing lunch. Bruno has been drinking

and his eyes are bright and feverish. An almost empty liquor

bottle is near a couple of detective novels covered with

gaudily Illustrated dust jackets. Bruno has in unlighted

cigarette in his mouth. Guy's lighter is on the table.

Bruno snaps it a couple of times, as though fascinated, lights

his cigarette and puts the lighter on the table again.

Guy smiles this off as nonsense.

Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org     9.

Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org       10.

Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org       11.

He holds out his hand.   Guy is in a hurry but he shakes hands.

Left alone, Bruno picks up Guy's lighter from the table,

starts to call Guy back to hand It to him.Then he looks closer

at the insignia of crossed tennis rackets.

A WIDE VIEW OF THE TOWN OF METCALF

METCALF RAILROAD STATION

as the train comes in.

THE TRAIN STATION PLATFORM MED. SHOT

As Guy gets off the with his suitcase and tennis rackets.    A

baggage man with baggage truck is passing.

He loads them onto a truck.

INT. METCALF STREET LONG SHOT

Guy is walking up the main street.

EXT. MUSIC SHOP

Typical music shop of a small town, with plate glass windows

and displays of radios, records, sheet music, etc. Activity

of a couple of customers and salespeople inside. Guy comes

along the street and goes into the shop.

INT. MUSIC SHOP

As Guy enters. There are the usual counters and shelves,

pianos and radios on display, and the sound of a piano being

tuned in the back of the store. MIRIAM is finishing with a

customer at a counter. MR. HARGREAVES, the manager, is busy

at the shelves. Another girl clerk is serving a customer.

In one of the glass cubicles where records are tried out, a

customer is playing symphonic music; in a second glass cubicle

another customer is listening to a record of popular music.

A third cubicle is empty. Activity of the street is seen

through the plate glass front.

Guy walks straight to Miriam, just as she is finishing with

her woman customer, handing over a small package.

Miriam's face is pretty because it is still young. She is

self-centered and inclined to be vindictive. She wears

harlequin glasses with myopic lenses which tend to make her

eyes look small.

Miriam's eyes slide toward the other girl clerk who has moved

closer, within listening range.

Guy follows Miriam across to the empty room.   Miriam has

brought her purse along.

They enter.

INT. CUBICLE

Once inside, the sounds of the music playing from other parts

of the shop are heard but very faintly. The piano tuning

still goes on, but less stridently. Miriam and Guy are cooped

together in the close quarters.

Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org        16.

A few people in the shop look around as Guy's voice rises

above the sound of the record playing.

Guy seizes her angrily and in so doing, knocks the tone arm

across the record with a loud screech. From outside we can

see heads turn. Mr. Hargreaves, the manager, is very

disturbed.

MED. SHOT THROUGH GLASS PARTITION FROM HARGREAVES' VIEWPOINT

We see Guy gripping Miriam's arms and apparently addressing

her in a threatening manner, although we do not hear his

words. The smile has faded from Miriam's face and something

like cringing fear has taken its place. She is drawn and

tense and seems to cower beneath Guy's rage.

Mr. Hargreaves moves forward and opens Guy's tirade.

He starts to exit from the booth.   Miriam grabs his arm and

screams at him:

Guy strides out of the store, the manager and a few customers

turning around in surprise.

The two customers in other booths, seeing the quarrel, open

their doors simultaneously and Miriam's tirade is climaxed

by a cacophony of noise, a big symphony, loud hot music, and

the apparently unaware piano tuner.

EXT. MAIN STREET METCALF SHOOTING TOWARDS STATION

Guy is striding along angrily. He comes to the same

intersection and the same cop. The officer makes a friendly

gesture, is if he'd like to talk awhile, but Guy strides

past him without noticing.

EXT. METCALF STATION (PROCESS)

Guy comes into the scene, crosses to a row of public telephone

booths, enters one. Inside the telephone booth, he dumps

some loose change on the shelf, sticks a nickel in the

telephone, speaks into it.

Another pause, very long. Guy is very restless. He digs a

cigarette out of his pocket and sticks it in his mouth, then

looks through his pockets for his lighter, doesn't find it.

He looks puzzled, but about that time the operator speaks to

him.

Guy picks coins up off the shelf and drops them into the

telephone, then waits. He shifts the receiver and fumbles

in his other jacket pocket, then turns to the phone.

INT. BURTON LIVING ROOM

ANNE BURTON is a beautiful, high-spirited and well-bred young

woman. The smile on her face his faded to anxiety as she

listens over the telephone which is on the desk.

BACK TO GUY IN TELEPHONE BOOTH

Meantime the noise of a through train has been HEARD, and

the horn on a streamliner locomotive. It has come up very

fast, it is now almost to the station. Guy rises his voice

and yells into the telephone. His voice fights the roar of

the train:

The expression on his face is frenzied and suggesting that

he means exactly what he is saying.

INT. ANTHONY LIVING ROOM

The scene opens on a CLOSEUP OF A MAN'S HANDS. One of them

is semi-flexed and turning slowly, The other is receiving

the final touches of a manicure.

CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal that these are Bruno's hands,

and that, he is studying them moodily, CAMERA PULLS BACK

FARTHER to reveal his mother, MRS. ANTHONY, sitting opposite

him at a little table in the Anthony living room. She is

working with scissors, file and nail buffer. Mrs. Anthony

is a gentle, once pretty woman, whose pastel exterior harbors

a tigress-like determination to protect her son, Bruno is in

his robe and is unshaven.

There is evidence of long established wealth in the heavy

dark appointments of this room.

Mrs. Anthony looks up, notices his moody expression.

He denies this with a slow, solemn shake of his head.

Bruno's fist crashes down on the little table, upsetting it,

as he gets to his feet.

They look at the painting.

INSERT

The painting is a horrible mess. Out of the violence of the

pattern a man's face can be discerned, wild-eyed and

distorted. We hear laughter from Bruno.

BACK TO SCENE

Bruno's roar of laughter puzzles Mrs. Anthony, but she is

pleased to hear his good humor. He puts an arm around her.

At this moment there is the sound of the front door opening.

Then immediately the telephone bell rings in the hall. Bruno

is instantly alert, as if he had been expecting a call. He

goes toward the door to the hall, as the butler enters.

Bruno's father MR. ANTHONY, purposefully enters the living

room. He an impeccably dressed business man with an

uncompromising eye. His entrance momentarily blocks Bruno's

exit.

Bruno now exits into the hall, passing his father without

speaking.

INT. HALL CLOSE SHOT BRUNO

as he approaches the telephone.

CAMERA MOVES IN TO A BIG HEAD CLOSEUP OF BRUNO at the

telephone as the Voices of his mother and father can be heard

from the other room.

Bruno gives a look in his father's direction, before he speaks

into the telephone in a low voice.

INT. LOCKER ROOM OF TENNIS CLUB CLOSE SHOT GUY AT TELEPHONE

CLOSEUP BRUNO

The voices of Mr. and Mrs. Anthony can still be heard in

dispute as Bruno listens at phone:

Bruno gives a significant look in direction of the living

room as he speaks into the phone.

The phone clicks in Bruno's ear. He looks hurt for an

instant, then replaces the receiver. Bruno listens to his

father off scene and his expression becomes more enigmatic.

Bruno looks off in direction of his farther's voice with an

expression which says, "Crow while you can, you haven't

much time." He reaches into his pocket, brings out Guy's

cigarette lighter and as he flicks it on and off.

EXT. METCALF STATION LONG SHOT DAY

This is the same shot we saw when Guy arrived in Metcalf.

We see the station and one of the main streets beyond the

station.

LONG SHOT A NEARER VIEW

We see the train come   around the curve. Again this is just

the same angle that we   used for Guy. It comes to a stop in

the foreground and we   see Bruno alight onto the platform.

He looks about him for   a moment and then strolls away in the

direction of the town.    He approaches the row of telephone

booths.

EXT. STATION CLOSE SHOT

We see Bruno enter the small booth and start to glance through

the telephone directory.

INSERT TELEPHONE DIRECTORY

Bruno's finger runs down the names until it stops at:

A RESIDENTIAL STREET IN METCALF LONG SHOT

It is now much later.    It is beginning to get dark, and the

street lights are on.    In the far distance we see a local

bus approaching.

MED. SHOT

SHOOTING DOWN onto a small seat by a bus stop, we see Bruno

with an open newspaper in front of him. It is held up as he

reads it.

CLOSEUP

Bruno is glancing over the top of the paper.

LONG SHOT

From his viewpoint we   see a typical frame house. The upper

windows are lit as are   the lower ones as well. A woman is

sitting in a rocker on   the front porch.  This is MRS. JOYCE,

Miriam's mother. She    has white hair. A  woman comes along

the street and pauses   as she gets to Mrs. Joyce.

The neighbor passes on.

CLOSE UP

Bruno, still glancing over the top of his paper.

LONG SHOT

Again from Bruno's viewpoint, we see Miriam's house. At

this moment the front door swings open, emitting a long streak

ot bright light. We see the silhouette of a woman emerge,

followed by two other men. They're laughing and joking.

Suddenly they look up the street. At this very moment the

bus pulls up in front of Bruno's view, cutting off the sight

of his quarry. The bus comes to a stop.

CLOSE SHOT

Bruno rises in alarm and moves around toward the end of the

bus so that he shall not lose sight of the girl coming out

of the house.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

From his viewpoint, the girl, whom we now see is Miriam, is

running followed by the two young men. They are calling for

the bus not to go - shouting, "Hi - stop!" Mrs. Joyce calls

from the porch:

CLOSE UP

Bruno watches Miriam.

MED. SHOT

Miriam comes nearer and nearer to Bruno. With her two

companions she brushes past him and jumps onto the bus.    THE

CAMERA PANS BRUNO AFTER THEM.

EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK LONG SHOT

We see the bus pull up outside the Amusement Park, and the

various passengers alight. These include Miriam nd her

companions, and Bruno.

LONG SHOT NEARER VIEW OF THE AMUSEMENT PARK

We see the usual midway with its various concessions on each

side: in the distance the Ferris wheel, Merry-go-rounds,

etc., and beyond that a lake. In the foreground we see people

filling in and out.

MED.   LONG SHOT A GROUP BY A FROZEN CUSTARD STAND

This group comprises Miriam and her two boy-friends. They

lick their way out of the crowd and debate between themselves

where to go next.

CLOSE SHOT

Miriam's eye catches the attention of something off screen.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

From her viewpoint we see Bruno standing and casually watching

her. Other people pass around and in front of him, so that

he is the only immobile figure.

SEMI-CLOSEUP

Miriam, with a kind of coy consciousness, turns away with

the others and they go on to some other concession.

MED. SHOT

As Bruno starts to advance in the direction of Miriam he is

momentarily held up by a small boy in cowboy uniform carrying

a gun and a balloon. The small boy points the gun at Bruno.

SEMI-CLOSE UP

The small boy pointing the gun fires it twice with a couple

of 'bangs!' He then starts to move off.

SEMI-CLOSE UP

Bruno moves on past the boy. He casually touches the balloon

with his cigarette end -- it goes off with a 'pop'.

CLOSE UP

The small boy turns and looks with dismay at his pricked

balloon, wondering what happened.

SEMI-CLOSE UP

Bruno moves on, pleased with himself, returning his attention

to Miriam who is somewhere ahead of him.

MEDIUM SHOT

Miriam and her two boy-friends by the sledge hammer concession

where the aim is to swing the hammer hard enough down onto

its target to ring the bell and register the 100 mark. Miriam

is in the foreground of the shot. The first boy steps up to

try his hand. As he swings, Miriam turns and glances about

her, obviously looking for Bruno.

LONG SHOT FROM MIRIAM VIEWPOINT

The crowds milling, but no sign of Bruno.

MEDIUM SHOT

The first boy having failed to ring the bell, the second

stops up and slams the hammer down.

CLOSE SHOT

The register shooting up only to the hallway mark.

CLOSE SHOT MIRIAM

She looks a little disdainful and again glances around for

Bruno. Looking first to her left where she sees nothing,

she then looks to her right, and as she does THE CAMERA PANS

to show Bruno standing right it her shoulder. Miriam gives

a little start. Bruno smiles at her. With a smirk he walks

over and after paying his fee, goes to take up the hammer.

CLOSE UP MIRIAM

She watches Bruno.

CLOSE SHOT

Bruno looks down at his hands.

INSERT

Bruno's two strong hands - as he holds them palms tilted

upward and fingers curled in.

CLOSE UP

Bruno, as he smiles faintly, glancing across at Miriam.

CLOSE UP MIRIAM

She gives a faint smile in return.

CLOSE SHOT

With a studied movement, Bruno picks up the handle of the

hammer and swings.

CLOSE SHOT

The register shoots up to the 100 mark and rings the bell.

MEDIUM SHOT

Bruno drops the hammer and glances around at Miriam again.

Her two boy-friends are calling for her from a little

distance.

CLOSE SHOT MIRIAM

She turns away and is lost in the crowd.

MEDIUM SHOT OVER BRUNO'S SHOULDER AT MERRY-GO ROUND IN

BACKGROUND

Bruno turns to follow Miriam, his manner casual. As he takes

a few steps, WE PAN ACROSS with him until, over his shoulder,

we see a merry-go-round in the background. Miriam and the

two boys are aboard and climbing onto horses. As Bruno goes

toward the merry-go-round, the CAMERA MOVES UP A LITTLE with

him. The merry-go-round starts to move slowly round as Bruno

hops on.

MEDIUM SHOT ON MERRY-GO-ROUND

Bruno begins to look around for Miriam, who is apparently on

the other side of the merry-go-round. He starts to thread

his way through the horses which are beginning to move up

and down. CAMERA FOLLOWING HIM. He passes one or two of

the oncoming heads before he reaches Miriam. She is on an

outside mount which is high in the air when she sees Bruno

facing her. Her laughter dies for a moment and she smiles

at him coyly. Bruno passes her and gets on the horse directly

behind her, Miriam glancing at him as her horse comes down.

MEDIUM SHOT BRUNO ON HORSE

With horse's head in foreground, as it is coming toward us.

SIDE VIEW MIRIAM

Miriam on her horse, moving from left to right. Miriam,

holding the reins, glances back with a gay laugh.

SIDE VIEW BRUNO

Bruno on his horse, as though he is chasing Miriam.    He is a

little more open now in his laughter.

GROUP SHOT MIRIAM AND TWO BOYS

Miriam and her boy friends begin to sing the song being played

on the calliope.

CLOSE UP MIRIAM

As she starts to sing, she glances back.

CLOSE UP BRUNO

He is starting to join in the singing.

MEDIUM SHOT

The horses of the merry-go-round are filling the screen as

they whizz by, and again we get the picture of Bruno chasing

Miriam as they rush past the CAMERA, the music and tempo at

a high speed.

EXTERIOR OF BOAT LANDING ON SHORE OF ARTIFICIAL LAKE

Across the water may be seen a small wooded island. Between

this and the boat landing there is an artificially constructed

"Tunnel of Love".

We see Miriam and her companions approach the boat concession

and CAMERA FOLLOWS THEM onto the little landing stage. CAMERA

MOVES UP SLOWLY over the boy's shoulders until we get MIRIAM

IN CLOSE UP. She glances back. Her expression changes to a

coy smile of satisfaction as she sees:

MEDIUM SHOT (FROM MIRIAM'S VIEWPOINT)

Bruno is approaching the pay box.

MEDIUM SHOT

Miriam and her companions are escorted to a small boat with

electric motor. Once they are seated the boat chugs away

from the landing stage and off into the darkness.

Bruno steps into the foreground and gets into the next boat

which floats alongside. He, too, moves away into the

darkness.

ENTRANCE TO THE TUNNEL

As Miriam's boat passes through, she gives another little

glance over shoulder before her boat disappears into the

darkness of the tunnel.

After a brief moment Bruno's boat comes into the picture,

and it, too, goes into the tunnel.

INSIDE THE TUNNEL

We see the silhouettes of the occupants of Miriam's boat on

the wall of the tunnel, lit dimly from the light coming from

the tunnel exit.

The silhouette of Bruno in his boat, lit by the tunnel

entrance, gradually approaches the other three. When the

silhouettes are almost touching, we --

EXIT OF THE TUNNEL

It is empty. There is a sudden piercing scream from inside,

followed after a second or two by protestations and giggling

as Miriam's boat emerges into the light. She is pushing one

of the boys away from her.

Their boat moves out of the picture, toward the island.

Presently Bruno's boat comes smilingly following and he,

too, moves on out of the picture.

MEDIUM SHOT ISLAND

The group of Miriam and her companions are scrambling out of

their boat and moving onto the island, one of the boys trying

the boat on the shore. They disappear into the Woods of the

island.

Again Bruno's boat comes into the picture. He steps out,

lift the prow of the boat a little onto the shore.

LONG SHOT ISLAND

We see the amusement park lighted beyond the lake.

Silhouetted in the foreground, the trees and foliage of the

island. Nearby we see the silhouetted figures of Miriam and

her companions move across the scene, right to left. Miriam

is pushing George away from her.

She backs away from him and the boys go on picture. Miriam

goes in another direction, around, the bushes. George

obviously misses her, for we hear his voice call out:

Miriam backs out of the bushes   until the back of her head is

in CLOSEUP in the foreground of   the shot. Suddenly she hears

steps in back of her and turns   her head toward CAMERA. Her

face changes as she recognizes   someone offscene.

She gives a coy smile of recognition. CAMERA   PULLS BACK to

reveal the mad and shoulders of Bruno between  Miriam and the

camera. His hand holds Guy's lighter which he   flicks on as

he raises it above Miriam's face. 0f Bruno, we  see only the

back of his head and shoulders.

We see Bruno's gloved hands dart quickly to Miriam's throat.

The lighter falls down out of picture, and as Bruno's hands

grip her throat, his head moves slightly to blot out Miriam's

face. His head moves a bit farther until Miriam's face is

nearly uncovered at the other side of the screen, and we see

her glasses fall off.

CLOSE SHOT

Miriam's glasses hit the ground. The shadows of their

struggling figures over the shot.

CLOSE UP

The screen is filled with one of the lenses  of the glasses.

They are of the diminishing type. Against   the moonlit sky

we see reflected, the elongated struggling  figures, as though

we were shooting up at them. Suddenly one   of the figures

falls forward.

CLOSE UP

Miriam's head drops into the picture by the glasses.

Bruno's hand comes into the picture and picks up the glasses.

One of the lenses has been broken by Miriam's fall.

As we see Bruno's sport shoes move away, the CAMERA MOVES

PAST MIRIAM'S HEAD until it comes to Guy's lighter pressed

into the earth.

CLOSE UP BRUNO

Bruno glances back over his shoulder.   He looks down and

goes back one or two steps.

CLOSE UP BRUNO'S HAND

Bruno's hands retrieve the lighter from the ground.

LONG SHOT ISLAND

We see a full view of the island again, with the amusement

park beyond. The faint noise of the calliope continues in

the distance. Bruno has been lost to view.

Miriam's companions are still searching for her.   We hear

their faint voices in the distance.

MEDIUM SHOT

Bruno comes to the shore where his boat is moored. He gets

in and is quickly chugging away. He moves calmly, matter-of-

fact and not furtively.

LONG SHOT LAKE

Bruno's boat throbbing its way across toward the landing

stage.

MEDIUM SHOT LANDING STAGE

There are two boats unloading. Bruno's boat is approaching.

We hear a loud call from the island. Someone has found

Miriam.

More shouts from the island cause the people at the landing

stage to look back.  The boatman's attention is also

attracted. Suddenly,  as Bruno is getting out of boat, there

is a loud scream from the island.

Bruno by this time has stopped onto the landing stage, and

in company with the other people, is looking back as if to

see what's wrong on the island. Then he moves away, starting

off of the landing stage. The boatman turns and glances at

Bruno, but quickly returns his attention to the disturbance

across on the island. He hurries forward and with a couple

of men passengers jumps into one of the boats. He calls to

his assistant as he gets into the boat.

The assistant runs off out of the pictures

MEDIUM SHOT BRUNO

As Bruno calmly threads his way along the midway, we hear

above the noise of the various concessions, a shrill police

whistle in the distance. Presently a couple of policemen

comes running from direction of the main entrance and past

Bruno. He glances at them over his shoulder, then strolls

on toward the main entrance to the park.

ENTRANCE TO AMUSEMENT PARK EXTERIOR

As Bruno comes out through the turnstile, he stands for a

moment on the street. At this moment a man hesitates at the

curbstone. He is blind and tapping the sidewalk with his

white cane. He takes one step into the roadway, then

hesitates. Bruno steps forward and takes the blind man's

arm. CAMERA PULLS BACK as Bruno escorts the blind man across

the road. With a sweeping gesture he holds back a couple of

cars to lot them pass.

Once on the other side of the road, the blind man utters his

thanks.

He goes off.

Bruno looks back toward the park, then glances down at his

wristwatch.

INSERT BRUNO'S WRISTWATCH

The time is 9.30.

INT. OBSERVATION CAR OF A TRAIN NIGHT

Through the rear window we see the tracks rushing away from

us. Seated in the foreground are Guy Haines and a rather

professorial type opposite him, a bespectacled man around

forty-five or fifty who is extremely drunk.

MEDIUM SHOT GUY

He is reading an evening newspaper.

CLOSE SHOT

The feet opposite Guy stretch out and touch Guy's feet.

CLOSEUP GUY

He lowers his paper and looks across.

MED. SHOT

The drunk opposite   Guy looks down at his feet and then up to

Guy resentfully as   though Guy had kicked him. He eyes Guy

up and down, then   suddenly, without warning, bursts into

song, to the tune   of the Barber Shop Chord.

Again he bursts into loud song.

LONG SHOT WASHINGTON EXTERIOR ABOUT 1 A.M. MOONLIGHT

A solitary taxi is seen driving past the Capitol Building.

The taxi comes to a side street and stops outside a small

apartment house.

MED. SHOT

Guy gets out of the taxi with his rackets and bag, pays the

driver and goes up the steps to the front door of his

apartment.

CLOSE SHOT

As Guy is about to enter the front door and we see his name

posted on a small card as one of the several tenants, he

hears a soft call from across the street.

Guy turns his head and looks across the street.

MED. LONG SHOT (FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT)

We see a small space between two houses across the street.

Out of the darkness the voice repeats.

MED. SHOT GUY

He turns, and with a slightly bewildered and wary expression,

goes out of the picture to cross the street.

MED. SHOT

Guy reaches the other side of the street and still puzzled

and cautious, approaches the dark alleyway.

MED. SHOT

After a moment a figure steps out of the darkness. It is

Bruno. He steps back into the darkness again as Guy comes

up to him.

TWO SHOT

Guy frowning in puzzlement as he looks at Bruno.

Guy stands without answering.

Bruno's hand comes out of his pocket and he hands Miriam's

glasses to Guy.

INSERT

Guy's hands taking Miriam's glasses from Bruno.    One of the

lenses is broken.

TWO SHOT

As Guy takes the glasses he looks at Bruno in bewilderment.

CLOSEUP GUY

He looks down at the glasses, mystified.   He looks up again

to Bruno.

CLOSEUP BRUNO

CLOSEUP GUY

He is horrified. He looks swiftly down at the glasses in

his hand, then back to Bruno.

TWO SHOT

Guy can hardly believe what he is hearing.

Guy suddenly starts to go.   Bruno grabs his arm.

Guy turns back slowly and faces him.

Guy makes a move to leave, but Bruno holds on tight.

At this moment both turn at a sound across the street.

LONG SHOT (FROM THEIR VIEWPOINT)

We hear the sound of a telephone ringing in Guy's apartment.

The top of one of his windows is open.

Guy still stares across the street.

LONG SHOT (FROM HIS VIEWPOINT)

We see a police car pull up outside Guy's apartment.

TWO SHOT

Bruno pulls Guy back further into the shadows. Guy

instinctively flattens himself against the wall. He looks

across the street again.

LONG SHOT (FROM HIS VIEWPOINT)

We see the two policemen go into his apartment building.

TWO SHOT

Guy is still flattened against the wall to keep out of light.

CLOSEUP GUY

He looks across at the police, then down at himself with

some surprise and disgust, then over at Bruno, suddenly

conscious he is behaving like a criminal and that Bruno is

responsible for his predicament.

Bruno for a moment looks menacingly at Guy.

Bruno's flare of anger dies.   They both look again across

the street.

LONG SHOT (FROM THEIR VIEWPOINT)

The two policemen come out of the house, get into their car

and drive off.

Guy's telephone is still ringing.

TWO SHOT

Guy looks at him, almost numb.

Guy turns and starts to move in across the street.

TWO SHOT

Bruno follows Guy and we FOLLOW them across the street.

CAMERA ON THEIR BACKS. Guy strides ahead to the house.

Guy turns at the door to his apartment building.

Guy opens his door, turns on Bruno.

He goes in and slams the door in Bruno's face.

He realizes there is no use in trying to talk to Guy any

further. He turns and faces the CAMERA IN CLOSE UP as he

moves away, looking sad almost to the point of tears.

INT. GUY'S APARTMENT

Guy is standing at the telephone which is still ringing. He

has Miriam's glasses in his hand. He looks down at them for

a moment, then picks up the receiver. He hesitates, then

speaks into the phone.

He hangs up but keeps his hand on the telephone, deliberating.

He starts to dial, then suddenly hangs up and starts out.

EXT. A RESIDENTIAL STREET, WASHINGTON LONG SHOT NIGHT

A taxi drives up and stops in front of a handsome residence.

It is the Burton home. Guy gets out of the taxi and goes up

the steps.

MED. SHOT OVER GUY'S SHOULDER

His figure tense, he rings the   bell. After a moment's wait,

the door is opened from inside   and Anne Burton stands in the

lighted hallway. She looks at    Guy with an anxious, taut

expression, searches his face   hastily, then as he takes a

step inside she is suddenly in   his arms. They embrace with

wordless fervor.

Anne draws back and looks into his face as if searching for

an answer to some question in her mind.

Guy takes her hand from hIs face, caresses it with his lips.

Father wants to see you.

CLOSEUP GUY

He looks apprehensively in direction of the living room,

conscious of what the news is to be, but covering up.

LONG SHOT LIVING ROOM FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT

SENATOR BURTON and BARBARA BURTON are seated near a desk on

the farthest side of the room. Senator Burton is a

distinguished fifty, a man with great pride in tradition,

his family and his career. Barbara, Anne's younger sister,

is a lively seventeen who loves excitement, says exactly

what she thinks and rarely thinks before she says it.

Superficially, in height and figure, she resembles Miriam.

She also weirs glasses. By her gestures we gather she is

speaking urgently, but softly, to her father, who lifts a

weary hand to quiet her as she looks toward Guy in the

hallway, Barbara keeps quiet and also looks toward Guy.

They both wait for him to enter.

CLOSEUP GUY

He steels himself for the long walk across the hall and the

living room.

CLOSEUP ANNE

Watching Guy closely.

MED. SHOT

As Guy starts to make the long trek across the living room,

with Anne behind him --

Barbara has been squirming in her seat, then as if jet

propelled she catapults out of it and runs to Guy, giving

him a big hug and a smack on the cheek.

Subdued, she sits down.   But Guy remains standing.

Guy stares woodenly at the Senator, is if hypnotized.

The full impact of what has happened hits Guy once more.

Slowly Guy's eyes meet hers. They are remembering what he

said on the phone: "I could strangle her." He sinks into a

chair. The Senator is quite distressed.

During the following scene Barbara quietly goes about the

business of pouring drinks and serving them. She knows

everyone's preference.

Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org      49.

The Senator's expression says: "Well, that's not too bad."

CLOSEUP ANNE

Her face shows her relief that Guy can account for his time.

BACK TO SCENE

CLOSE TWO ANNE AND GUY

look at one another with a growing realization of what

Miriam's death actually means to their happiness -- they are

free.

BACK TO SCENE

The Senator firmly urges Barbara to the door.

The Senator gives her a gentle but firm push out of sight.

Barbara pokes her head quickly around the door.

TWO SHOT

Left alone, Guy and Anne embrace. Anne's nervous tension

comes to the surface in a flood of relief.

Anne quickly puts her fingers over his mouth.

LONG SHOT MAIN STREET OF METCALF DAY

with its customary mid-afternoon activity.

EXT. METCALF POLICE HEADQUARTERS DAY

A knot of people are hanging around the entrance, including

a few newspaper photographers. There is a rush of interest

when a taxi pulls up and Guy steps out of it. Guy pushes

his way through the people. Two or three bulbs flash. There

is a murmur from the crowd and we hear Guy's name. He passes

into the entrance.

INT. CORRIDOR OF POLICE HEADQUARTERS

Guy comes into the corridor from the street and approaches

two policemen who are standing nearby.

One of the policemen gestures to a door at the right.    Guy

crosses and enters.

INT. RECEPTION ROOM OUTSIDE CAPTAIN TURLEY'S OFFICE

At one side of the room is a young police sergeant seated at

a typewriter. A group of people are seated in chairs lined

against the opposite wall.

Guy enters, crosses to the sergeant at the desk.

He rises and goes into an adjoining room.

CLOSEUP GUY

He now has time to take stock of the waiting people.    He

catches his breath when he sees:

CLOSEUP MRS. JOYCE

Miriam's mother, dressed all in black, is seated in one of

the chairs. She has been staring at the floor, but brings

her eyes up slowly to glare at Guy with a look of burning

hatred.

CLOSEUP MR. HARGREAVES

Mr. Hargreaves from the music shop looks across at Guy,

attempts in awkward nod but is very embarrassed.

CLOSEUP GUY

Guy nods in returns.

MED. SHOT

The two boys who were with Miriam at the amusement park.

They look at Guy with interest.

MED. SHOT GUY

He looks about him uncomfortably, then turns suddenly as he

sees:

MED. SHOT

Seated behind Guy, apart from the others who are waiting, is

Professor Collins, Guy's drunken companion on the train of

the night before. The professor is completely sober now,

dignified and erect. He has removed his glasses to polish

them and does not react to Guy's presence.

CLOSEUP GUY

Guy starts with a smile of recognition to say, "How do you

do?" but at that moment he hears the door open and his name

called:

MED. SHOT

Guy breaks away from his uncompleted greeting to the professor

and goes through the door to Captain Turley's office, followed

by the eyes of the waiting people.

INT. CAPTAIN TURLEY'S OFFICE

CAPTAIN TURLEY is conscientious, methodical and always polite.

He puts aside photographs and records and rises from behind

his desk as Guy comes in. A detective lieutenant, CAMPBELL,

is attending a coffee maker. Their expressions are grave by

contrast with Guy's confident attitude after seeing the

professor in the waiting room.

Turley signals to Campbell to call the professor in.

CLOSEUP GUY

He looks up eagerly.

MED. SHOT

Professor Collins comes in and sits in a chair opposite Guy.

The professor studies Guy for a moment, then awkwardly turns

to Turley.

CLOSEUP GUY

Surprised.    His confident expression fades.

CLOSEUP PROFESSOR COLLINS

He turns from the captain to Guy.

MED. SHOT GROUP

Guy interrupts with a slight note of impatience.

Turley and Campbell are watching closely.

CLOSEUP GUY

Momentarily Guy is frustrated, then he turns quietly to

Turley.

Guy asks this question with a look of near triumph that he

has clearly established his alibi.

INT. BURTON LIVING ROOM EVENING

The Burtons are having coffee. Barbara has been glancing

through a new murder mystery with a lurid cover. As Guy

enters, Anne rises to greet him.

Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org       59.

He crosses to the window, lifts the curtain slightly, then

turns back to the others.

The group move to look out the window, the senator with

reluctance.

LONG SHOT EXT. STREET FROM THEIR VIEWPOINT

Through the window we see the figure of a man across the

street. He is lighting a cigarette and strolling up and

down.

BACK TO GROUP

Nobody bothers to answer her. The Senator is disturbed, but

confident of his own prestige as he goes back to his coffee.

The Senator's cup is suddenly back on its saucer and he is

on his feet, pacing nervously.

Guy has been looking at Anne and is concerned at the worry

on her face. He nods in assent to the Senator's suggestion,

but puts his hand over Anne's.

The are crestfallen again. RANDALL, the manservant, has

entered with the telephone.

The phone is plugged in to a connection and Guy crosses the

room and picks up the receiver. The Burtons watch him.

INT. TELEPHONE BOOTH BIG HEAD CLOSEUP OF BRUNO

His face wears the most affable expression.

INT. BURTON LIVING ROOM

Guy hangs up the telephone quickly.   He looks at the others,

awkwardly tries to explain:

His embarrassment grows as Anne looks at him with a puzzled

expression.

FADE IN

EXT. WASHINGTON STREET APPROACHING JEFFERSONS MEMORIAL DAY

Guy and HENNESSY are walking along the street together, CAMERA

MOVING WITH THEM. Their relationship is most friendly. Guy

carries a briefcase. Hennessy is an amiable but not gullible

young man in his early thirties. He knows his job, is well

groomed, well educated, and well liked.

He turns to light a cigarette. As he does, Guy gives a barely

perceptible start at what he sees offscene.

LONG SHOT JEFFERSON MEMORIAL FROM GUYS VIEWPOINT

The tiny figure of a man is standing at the base of the tall

white column. The figure lifts in arm and waves. Instinct

tells us that this is Bruno. Hennessy is still mumbling his

opinion of politics.

TWO SHOT GUY AND HENNESSY

Guy turns his back on Bruno's figure and looks frantically

toward to street, wanting to get away.

He hails a taxi which is cruising by, and they start to get

in. Guy directs the driver.

INT. TAXI CLOSE SHOT

Guy turns and looks out of the window.

LONG SHOT JEFFERSON MEMORIAL

from Guy's viewpoint, shot through the cab window. Again we

see the solitary figure of Bruno looking after Guy and

beginning to recede with the background as the cab starts

off.

INT. GUY'S APARTMENT NIGHT

As Guy comes in from outside, there is a note on   the floor

that has been pushed under the door. Guy picks    it up, stares

at it for a minute before he opens it. He takes    out a

handwritten note and reads it with an expression   of disgust.

INSERT NOTE (IN GUY'S HANDS)

IT READS:

Dear Guy:

We have to meet and make plans.

Call me at Arlington ----.

Time's getting short.

The handwriting is sprawling and erratic, embellished with

conceited flourishes.

MEDIUM SHOT

Guy looks off for a moment with set face, then tearing the

note into shreds, crosses to a small desk, lights a match

and holds it to the fragments, letting them burn and fall

into an ash tray.

Guy looks off for a moment with set face, then tearing the

note into shreds, crosses to a small desk, lights a match

and holds it to the fragments, letting them burn and fall

into an ash tray.

LONG SHOT EXT. MELLON GALLERY LATE AFTERNOON

CAMERA is in a low setup, to take in the sign across the

doorway which identifies the gallery. Hennessy stands in

the foreground in front of the building, on duty.

INT. MELLON GALLERY

Guy and Anne are walking slowly through a more or less

deserted room of the gallery. Their manner is relaxed and

intimate.

Anne looks it him, surprised at his lack of enthusiasm.

They walk on out of the picture.

A figure steps out from behind a pillar in the main hall of

the gallery, near the spot from which they have disappeared.

It is Bruno. He calls.

Anne stops and looks back. Guy knows who it is and would

not turn but that he is forced to by Anne's action. He takes

a few steps towards Bruno.

CLOSEUP

Anne watches Guy approach this stranger.   She looks downward

at Bruno's tie pin.

CLOSEUP

Bruno's tie pin, bearing his name, gleams in the light.

CLOSEUP

Anne reads the name on the tie pin.

TWO SHOT

Guy comes up to Bruno, steps in front of him.

He leaves Bruno abruptly to rejoin Anne.    Bruno looks after

him, a little hurt.

TWO SHOT

Guy rejoins Anne and they start to walk away.

Anne looks at him a little oddly.    He seems unduly concerned

about a casual stranger.

CLOSEUP ANNE

Her face is troubled.

FADE IN

INT. MORTON STUDY MED. SHOT

Guy and a secretary have set up office in the Morton study.

As the scene opens the secretary is handing Guy a large

envelope.

As Guy is opening the envelope, Barbara speaks to him from

atop a library ladder. She is getting a book from one of

the top shelves of a bookcase, which is next to a window.

As Guy's hands unfold the paper and hold it for moment, we

see that it is a diagrammed plan of the grounds and the

Interior of the Anthony house. There are dotted lines along

the upper hall, with an arrow which points to one room and

where Bruno has indicated in his handwriting, "My father's

room." Over this we hear the voices of Barbara and the

secretary:

MED. SHOT

Guy frowns, quickly folds the paper up and stuffs it into

his pocket. He looks off abstractedly.

CLOSEUP SECRETARY

She looks at Guy sympathetically.

CLOSEUP GUY

Her voice breaks his reverie.   He answers her with a forced

smile.

FADE IN

TENNIS COURT AT WASHINGTON COUNTRY CLUB

There are twenty or thirty people sitting in the bleacher

seats opposite the umpire's chair. A game of mixed doubles

is in progress.

MED. SHOT AT THE ENTRANCE TO THE COURT

Guy appears, carrying his racquets. His partner for the

forthcoming game, and one or two other players, are close

by.

CLOSER SHOT

Guy looks about him. Several people are looking at him

awkwardly or avoiding his eyes. He moves self-consciously

away, and the CAMERA PANS HIM around the court to the umpire's

chair.

MED. SHOT

A couple of women players whisper something about Guy as he

goes past them.

MED. SHOT

As Guy stands at the umpire's chair, the umpire glances down

and gives him a rather embarrassed greeting.

CLOSEUP GUY

He looks across at the watching crowd.

MED. SHOT FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT

The heads of the people in the bleachers move from side to

side, to follow the play on the court. One head is not

moving. It is staring at Guy. It is Bruno.

At this moment, we hear the umpire calling, "Game, set and

match" to the winning mixed doubles pair.

CLOSEUP GUY

His expression becomes set.

LONG SHOT

The mixed doubles couples complete their handshaking at the

net and move off the court. We see Guy move up to the base

line while the other player takes his position for the

preliminary knock-up.

MED. SHOT

As Guy casually knocks the ball across the net, he glances

again toward Bruno.

MED. SHOT FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT

Bruno is making his way out of the small stand.

CLOSEUP GUY

Perplexed and apprehensive as to what Bruno may be up to.

He hears his opponent's voice.

Guy shakes off his abstraction and poises himself to receive

the ball.

MED. SHOT PASSAGEWAY LEADING TO TERRACE

We see Guy coming alone, having fInIshed his game. He is

carrying his rackets, wears a towel around his neck, etcetera.

He walks into foreground, into CLOSEUP, and suddenly stops

short at what he sees:

MED. SHOT FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT

The group at the table comprising Bruno, Anne and the two

French people. Bruno is preening himself as the others laugh

uproariously, obviously at something Bruno has said. Anne

catches sight of Guy and smiles at him.

CLOSE SHOT GUY

CAMERA MOVES WITH HIM as he comes forward toward the table.

MED. SHOT GROUP AT TABLE

As Guy comes into the scene.   He stands staring.

CLOSEUP GUY

He gives a weak acknowledgment in Bruno's direction, realizing

that Bruno has wormed his way into the group and that he

must accept the introduction.

MEDIUM SHOT

Bruno half rises, smiles affably at Guy, reaches out his

hand. Guy is forced to shake hands with him

CLOSEUP GUY

He gives another weak little smile.

MED. SHOT

In response to the Frenchwoman's attentive and eager

expression, Bruno leans forward on the table and starts saying

something more in extremely fluent French.

CLOSEUP ANNE

She is staring at Bruno with a new expression.

CLOSEUP FROM ANNE'S VIEWPOINT

Bruno's coat has spread open a bit, and his tie pin bearing

the name "Bruno" is resting on the edge of the table.

CLOSEUP ANNE

She becomes aware that this is the man she has seen call to

Guy in the art museum, that they have met before. Her eyes

turn a little in Guy's direction, though she does not look

at him.

CLOSEUP GUY

He is still watching Bruno talk to the French couple. Guy

is unaware of Anne's looks. Suddenly his attention is

arrested by the sound of Barbara's voice calling him.

He turn his head and CAMERA PANS him to Barbara, who is

standing a few steps from the table beckoning to him.

CLOSEUP GUY

He gives a sharp look back toward Bruno. There is more

laughter coming from the French couple at the table.

CLOSE SHOT GROUP AT TABLE FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT

Bruno is occupied with his French joke, but Anne is looking

at Guy strangely.

TWO SHOT GUY AND BARBARA

Guy turns back to Barbara.    Barbara looks with interest toward

Bruno.

Barbara steps toward the table.

MED. SHOT AT TABLE

as Barbara joins the group.

They looks up.

CLOSEUP BRUNO

Bruno stops in the middle of some French to stare at Barbara.

Her voice continues.

CLOSE SHOT BARBARA FROM BRUNO VIEWPOINT

From Bruno's viewpoint, as Barbara speaks,CAMERA MOVES IN

CLOSER until to faintest impression of the merry-go-round

fills the screen with the effect of whirling around Barbara's

head. Her glasses seem to glint until her eyes are

obliterated by the glare.

MED. SHOT THE GROUP

All talk dies out as all eyes turn to Bruno, who is staring

at Barbara. Except Anne's, who is saying quietly to Bruno:

CLOSEUP BRUNO

He does not acknowledge the introduction immediately.   He is

still staring at Barbara. Then he nods abstractedly.

CLOSEUP ANNE

She is looking at Bruno, wondering what mystery lies behind

this strange individual and why he and Guy have disclaimed

any previous acquaintance.

FADE IN

INT. GUY'S APARTMENT NIGHT

CLOSEUP A LUGER PISTOL HELD IN GUY'S HANDS

CAMERA PULLS BACK TO SHOW Guy staring down at it. He is

partially dressed for an evening party, in black bow tie but

without his jacket. He leans forward to take up a letter

from among brown paper wrappings on the table.

INSERT: LETTER

The note, in Bruno's handwriting, is unsigned.

CLOSEUP GUY

He stares down at the note.   At this moment there is a knock

at the door.

MED. SHOT

Guy hastily gather together the gun, the note and the

wrappings and puts them in a dresser drawer. He crosses to

the door and opens it. Hennessy enters, carrying a topcoat.

Guy turns to the dresser drawer in which he has put the note

and the gun, maneuvering his body between the dresser and

Hennessy's view. He takes out a handkerchief, closes the

drawer, sticks the handkerchief in his pocket, speaking as

he does so.

Guy is eager to get out of the room, and Hennessy is

maddeningly slow in his movements.

Guy has the door open and eases Hennessy toward the haIl.

He's gone, and with a last glance at the dresser, Guy goes

out and closes the door.

EXT. BURTON HOUSE LONG SHOT NIGHT

The street outside the Burton house is lined with cars and

limousines. Various guests are arriving.

MED. SHOT

On the opposite side of the street we see Hennessy, now

wearing his topcoat. He looks bored as he glances across

the street to the house.

INT. BURTON HOUSE BIG HEAD CLOSEUP OF ANNE

Her face is troubled. CAMERA BEGINS TO PULL BACK. We see

now that the reception is in progress and that Anne stands

beside her father to greet the arriving guests. CAMERA PULLS

BACK FURTHER to show us a full view of a very crowded

Washington gathering Many white ties and tails and decollete

in evidence. Many accents. Even some foreign languages are

being spoken. Music and chatter in the b.g.

CLOSE SHOT

Anne and the Senator are still greeting new arrivals. Anne's

manner is somewhat preoccupied. She glances around as she

speaks, as though looking for someone.

PANNING SHOT FROM ANNE'S VIEWPOINT

THE CAMERA PASSES various groups   of guests in conversation

including Guy and Barbara who are   together. From this

distance we cannot hear what they   are saying. CAMERA

CONTINUES TO the front door. It    opens to admit a new arrival.

It is Bruno. He wears white tie    and tails, looking very

elegant.

We see Guy excuse himself from Barbara, cross to Bruno and

speak to him angrily, obviously asking, "What are you doing

here?" Bruno, however, greets Guy with a smile then turns

from him, unperturbed and bland. He sees Anne and moves

toward her, smiling.

CLOSEUP ANNE

As Bruno comes in her direction, Anne's expression shows her

mystification and concern about Bruno's presence and about

Guy's attitude toward him.

MED. SHOT

Bruno comes up to Anne and the Senator. He gives a slight

bow to the Senator; then puts his hand out to Anne.

The Senator looks inquiringly.    Anne makes the introduction.

Interrupted by new arrivals, Bruno moves away out of the

picture, with a charming smile to Anne.

The Senator greets the new guests with open mouth and simply

shakes their hands while glancing off in direction of the

departing Bruno.

She realizes he hasn't heard a word she's said and haughtily

moves on. The Senator turns to Anne.

CLOSEUP ANNE

She looks off in Bruno's direction extremely disturbed at

this new aspect of the mysterious stranger.

CLOSEUP GUY

He is watching Bruno.

MED. SHOT

Guy sees Bruno join a group of several ladies who are seated

on a settee and a couple of older men who are standing by.

A waiter comes along with a tray of drinks. Bruno takes

one.

CLOSEUP BARBARA

She comes from the same direction that Guy came.   She stops

short as she sees:

MED. SHOT FROM BARBARA'S VIEWPOINT

Bruno is now heartily joining in conversation with one of

the elderly gentlemen.

CLOSE SHOT BRUNO AND GROUP

Bruno talking to an elderly, dignified gentlemen.

At this moment, Anne comes into the scene.    She hesitates as

she hears Bruno's answer.

The Judge moves out of the way. Bruno smiles blandly at the

ladies. One of them speaks to him.

Anne looks more troubled, then moves on out of the scene.

Bruno pulls up a chair to face the two woman on the settee,

sits down, straddling the seat, to look at them over the

back of the chair and settle down for a nice conversation.

Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org       81.

The other woman joins in:

Mrs. Anderson laughs.

CLOSEUP BRUNO

As he starts to Press her neck, his eyes wander from the

face of his "victim" to someone else off scene.

MED. SHOT BARBARA

She is watching this rather unorthodox demonstration. The

CAMERA MOVES UP until her head fills the screen. Her glasses

glint in the light.

CLOSEUP BRUNO

He is now transfixed. His breathing becomes heavy. A strange

expression comes over his face. He still stares off at

Barbara.

MED. SHOT BARBARA

We see the whirling merry-go-round spinning around her head.

BIG HEAD CLOSEUP BRUNO

He now seem to have almost gone into a trance. Over the

shot we begin to HEAR a strangled cry, and a broken

exclamation, then Mrs. Anderson's voice.

CLOSEUP

Bruno's wrists and hands and the neck of his victim. We can

just see Mrs. Cunningham's chin at the top of the screen.

Her head is tossing from side to side. Her hands are

clutching at Bruno's wrists. The hands of the other two

women, also in the picture, are pulling at Bruno's wrists.

Mrs. Cunningham's hands begin to slide off. Her head drops

back.

Over this we HEAR cries of:

CLOSEUP BRUNO

His body is swaying slightly at the various efforts to drag

him away from Mrs. Cunningham. His eyes begin to close, and

slowly he falls away from the picture in a dead faint on the

floor.

MEDIUM SHOT

There is a rush of people around Mrs. Cunningham, who is

breathing frantically, her eyes opening and closing. A couple

of women are feebly slapping her hands, someone else is

fanning her face.

MEDIUM SHOT

The Senator and Guy rush into the picture. They look at the

fallen Bruno. They search around for an explanation. Other

man come in ad they start to pick Bruno up.

Guy gives a quick look in direction of Mrs. Cunningham, sees

that she is being attended to.

MEDIUM SHOT

Anne rushes into the picture. She sees Bruno being helped

to his feet; then turns her attention to Mrs. Cunningham,

who has now somewhat recovered. Mrs. Cunningham is helped

to the settee. There is a babble of women's voices trying

to explain what has happened.

As the two groups pass off in different directions, the few

people who ran into the scene late are asking the others

what the disturbance is. "What's wrong?" "Did she faint?"

"I didn't see anything." "What happened to him?" "Somebody

hurt?" But one small figure stands in the clear. It is

Barbara, She is still transfixed by what she has seen. Her

hands are trembling. CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY IN ON HER. We see

that her lips are trembling, too, and in her eyes frightened

tears are welling. Her breath is heavy.

INT. STUDY

Bruno is stretched out on a settee. He is completely out.

His collar and tie are open. Two or three of the male guests

are just leaving the room. The Senator remains behind for a

moment with Guy.

The Senator leaves.   Guy stands over Bruno's outstretched

figure.

MEDIUM SHOT

Bruno is now half awake. Almost without seeing Guy, he

staggers to his feet and begins to make his way to the door.

Guy advances, and with a sharp thrust, pushes Bruno back on

the settee.

Bruno looks and sees Guy clearly for the first time.

Guy moves forward, and thrusting his hand in Bruno's open

shirt, pulls him to his feet. Bruno ignores Guy's violence

and remain puzzled.

Guy smashes Bruno in the jaw, in utter disgust, and knocks

him back onto the settee. Bruno looks up from his sprawled

position, a dull look in his eye.

Bruno staggers to his feet. He fumbles at his collar.    As

he crosses to him, CAMERA MOVES IN to a CLOSER SHOT.

He fixes Bruno's shirt and collar together and quickly ties

his white bow. Bruno stands swaying like a small boy as Guy

does this.

CAMERA PANS WITH THEM as Guy starts to escort Bruno from the

room.

They pass trough door into the hallway.

INT. HALL MEDIUM SHOT

One or two of the guests turn their heads as Guy takes Bruno

across to the front door.

CLOSE SHOT

Barbara appears in the hallway, coming from the crowded

sitting room. She watches the two men go out the front door.

MEDIUM SHOT

Bruno and Guy going out the front door. The man-servant

does not close it immediately, so we are able to HEAR the

call for Mr. Antony's car.

CLOSEUP BARBARA

She turns her head and looks up the stairs. Barbara has not

quite recovered from her ordeal. She hurries forward to

greet Anne who is hurrying down the stairs.

TWO SHOT

CAMERA PANS DOWN with Anne as she descends the last few steps.

Barbara enters the picture and the two girls meet at the

foot of the stairs.

CLOSEUP BARBARA

CLOSEUP ANNE

TWO SHOT

CLOSEUP ANNE

She looks away, with growing consciousness of the situation

TWO SHOT

Anne is extremely concerned and thoughtful. Suddenly she

gets an idea and with a pat on Barbara's arm, asks hurriedly:

Anne hurries to the front door and passes through.

EXT. HOUSE

Anne comes out onto the steps and looks around.   She stops

short as she sees:

LONG SHOT EXT. STREET FROM ANNE'S VIEWPOINT

There are cars lined up outside on the street. One limousine

is pulling up in the center, two figures at the passenger

door. One is climbing in. The other is Guy.

CLOSEUP ANNE

She calls out urgently:

CLOSE SHOT

Guy turns and closes the door.

MEDIUM SHOT FROM ANNE'S VIEWPOINT

The limousine moves off and Guy comes toward her.

MEDIUM SHOT

Anne comes down the steps and intercepts Guy on the sidewalk.

She leads him along a few paces and then stops and faces

him.

CLOSE TWO SHOT

Anne nods off in the direction of the departed Bruno and

speaks in a desperate, low voice.

Guy stares at her for a moment.

Guy looks at Anne with an expression of growing fear and

alarm. She goes on inexorably:

Guy suddenly begins to realize what Anne is getting at.

Anne lowers her head, deliberately avoids looking at Guy, as

she asks:

Converted to PDF by www.screentalk.org       91.

They go toward the house.

TWO SHOT ACROSS THE STREET

As Hennessy watches Anne and Guy go toward the house, his

relief, HAMMOND, comes up. Hammond's a zealous, hard-eyed

sleuth.

INT. GUY'S APARTMENT LATER THAT NIGHT

Still in his dinner clothes, Guy is seated in deep thought

near the telephone, wrestling with his problem. There is an

open telephone directory in front of him. He comes to a

decision, picks up the telephone and dials a number. He

waits for the answer, then:

Guy hangs up, rises and starts to move with purpose for his

night's activities.

INT. GUY'S APARTMENT NIGHT

Guy is sitting at the table. He is dressed differently,

having changed from his dinner clothes to a sack suit. There

is only one lamp lighted in the room. Guy presents a grim

picture.

He is studying the plan of Bruno's house, and he picks up

the key Bruno sent along with it.  Finally he looks at his

watch, then folds the plan and puts it in his pocket with

the key. He rises, crosses to the  chest of drawers, opens

the top drawer.

INSERT: THE OPEN DRAWER

Guy's hands take out the Luger. His hand then picks up

Miriam's glasses from the drawer, holds them a moment. He

is about to put them back, then decides to take them along,

puts them into his pocket.

MED. SHOT

CAMERA PANS GUY across to the window.   He parts the curtains

slightly and looks out.

MED. SHOT ON STREET (FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT)

Hammond is lighting a cigarette as he strolls in front of

the house.

INT. GUY'S APARTMENT

Guy crosses to his door, which he opens surreptitiously.

MED. SHOT CORRIDOR

Guy glances down the stairs, then closes the door behind him

quietly and moves away to a window at the turn of the stairs.

EXT. FIRE ESCAPE

Guy comes out of the window onto the second floor fire escape.

He creeps stealthily down and emerges into a narrow alleyway.

He steps back into the shadows for a moment when he sees:

LONG SHOT FROM GUY'S VIEWPOINT (PROCESS)

The strolling figure of Hammond on the far side of the street.

MED. SHOT

Guy turns away and is soon lost in the darkness of the street.

EXT. A TALL PAIR OF ELABORATE IRON GATES NIGHT

We are on the inside of the gates. We see them swing open

slightly and the figure of Guy edges through them.

CLOSE SHOT

Guy leaves the gates ajar and then, taking the plan of Bruno's

house from his pocket, and the key, he looks toward the house.

EXT. STEPS LONG SHOT NIGHT

This is a long flight of steps. Moonlit. They are lined

with tall black cypress trees which throw their shadows across

the steps. Guy moves out of one shadow, into another and

carefully starts up the stairs.

AT THE DOOR

He pauses, looks about for a moment and listens. Then he

puts the key into the lock, finding it with his flashlight.

The door opens a few inches. He turns off the flash, and

enters.

INT. ANTONY HOME ENTRANCE HALL

As Guy moves in soundlessly and closes the door.   He looks

toward the stairs which are in shadow.

MED. SHOT

Guy starts up the stairs slowly.   He carries his flashlight

and the plan.

AT THE TOP OF THE STAIRS THE DOG

A huge shadow lies it the head of the stairs. As Guy comes

slowly up the stairs, the Great Dane looks down at him.

GUY ON THE STAIRS

He reacts to the sight of the dog, stops an instant, and

turn on his flashlight. The heavy massive face of the dog

looks straight down at him. Guy turns off the flashlight

and after a moment of indecision starts slowly up the stairs

once more, the dog watching every step he takes.

UPPER HALLWAY

Guy comes up the last few stairs and still the dog hasn't

moved. Guy slowly edges past him and the Great Dane's head

turns to watch him.

GUY

moving quietly along the hallway, approaches two doors. He

takes out his flash and identifies the door with his plan.

INSERT:

The plan shows two doors in relation to the stairway. The

first one is clearly marked: "MY room." The adjoining door

is marked: "My FATHER'S room."

CLOSE SHOT GUY

He pauses at the first door, then passes it quietly, walking

on to the next one. He turns the knob soundlessly and passes

through into the room.

INT. ANTONY BEDROOM LONG SHOT

The room is in darkness except for the dim outline of the

recumbent figure in the bed. We hear Guy's voice, in a loud

whisper:

The figure stirs.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Guy takes a stop closer to the bed.

The figure on the bed turns and a hand stretches out toward

a bedside light. The light goes on with a sudden glare.

CLOSEUP FACE OF BRUNO IN THE LIGHT (LOW CAMERA)

The low CAMERA throws a vast shadow up on the wall behind

him, creating a grimace of his smile.

CLOSEUP GUY

His face is dead.

MED. SHOT

Bruno rises from the bed and sits on the and of it. He is

fully dressed, just as he was at the party, in white tie and

tails.

The faintest flicker of Bruno's eyes indicates the intensity

of his reaction. He stares hard at Guy.

As Bruno continues to stare at him, Guy takes out the Luger.

For a moment a look of fear comes into Bruno's face as he

thinks Guy will probably shoot him. After a pause, Guy tosses

the gun on the bed.

Bruno's relief turns again to menace.      He picks up the gun

and fingers it nervously.

Bruno pays no attention.     He rises.

TWO SHOT

Guy's arguments have made no impression on Bruno whatsoever.

He fingers the gun.

For an instant his nervous hands seem to be struggling with

the urge to kill Guy.

Bruno goes to the door in silent acquiescence and opens it

for Guy to pass through.

INT. HALLWAY MED. SHOT

Guy walks toward the stairs, tense and apprehensive. Bruno

is following him, still holding the gun. When the Great

Dane sees Bruno it gets to its feet, as if waiting for a

command.

Guy starts down the stairs but Bruno stays where he is, the

dog beside him. Gay turns and looks back it this tableaux

of menace.

LONG SHOT

Bruno remains in the foreground of the scene as Guy proceeds

on down the stairs. We see him open the front door and pass

through.

EXT. STREET ACROSS GUY'S APARTMENT EARLY

CLOSE SHOT HENNESSY AND HAMMOND MORNING

Hennessy is relieving Hammond who has kept watch on Guy's

apartment night.

As he starts away --

FADE IN

INT. ANTONY LIVING ROOM LATE MORNING

Anne and Mrs. Antony are in the middle of a conversation.

Anne's manner is tense and purposeful, Mrs. Antony's much

less serious.

She goes out. Anne is left helpless, standing in the middle

of the room. She picks up her purse and is about to go when

she hears a voice:

Anne turns back in direction of the voice. CAMERA   PULLS

BACK until we can see the feet of Bruno protruding  from behind

a chair in which he is sitting. He has obviously   heard the

entire conversation between Anne and his mother.   Bruno rises.

He is in dressing gown and pajamas.

Anne is too stunned to speak.

Bruno is now standing near the   window a little apart from

Anne, with his back to him. He    takes something out of the

pocket of his dressing gown and   looks down at it in his hand.

It is Guy's lighter.  Suddenly   he stuffs it back his pocket

and turn back to Anne.

Anne's horror is growing.

Anne stares at this insane man and sinks on the settee.   She

starts to cry in sheer frustration. Bruno goes to her

sympathetically.

He puts his hand on her shoulder. Anne flings it off. There

is an awkward pause as Bruno looks down at her. Then he

begins to look around restlessly.

He turns, starts out of the room and up the stairs in the

hall. Anne watches him.

STAIRWAY FROM ANNE'S VIEWPOINT

Bruno turns and waves to Anne from the landing, then goes on

up the stairs.

INT. LIVING ROOM MED. SHOT

Anne slowly rises, a lonely figure in the large room, and

makes her way out.

LONG SHOT FOREST HILL STADIUM

Grouped.   A game is in progress.

MED. SHOT A TERRACE NEAR THE MAIN STADIUM (PROCESS)

where people get refreshments.   There are various table with

umbrellas.

MED. SHOT AT ONE OF TABLE (PROCESS)

Anne and Guy are seated at the table.

REYNOLDS, Guy's opponent, enters scene behind Guy's chair.

Anne acknowledges his greeting with a nod.

Reynolds leaves Anne and Guy rise, and as they walk toward

the stadium, we can see Guy start to speak to Anne in a

whisper.

ENTRANCE TO COVERED STAND ALREADY SHOT

Hennessy and Hammond are standing by.

Guy and Anne come into the scene just as the players from

the previous match emerge. They pass through, nodding to

Hennessy.

Guy is so preoccupied with his grim doesn't nod to Hennessy

until Anne nudges him.

INSIDE THE STAND MED. SHOT

Anne is reluctant to leave Guy who must now join his opponent,

Reynolds.

He goes on to the court, and Anna goes to her box.

MED. SHOT

Anne joins Barbara in the box.     She starts to whisper

something to her.

LONG SHOT

Guy and Reynolds complete their warm-up as the umpire

announces that Guy is to serve. The game starts.

EXT. ANTONY HOME

A taxi is at the front door. Bruno is descending the steps.

He gets into the cab, which moves off.

FOREST HILLS MED. SHOT ANNOUNCER'S BOOTH (PROCESS)

Over the shoulder of the announcer WE SEE the game in progress

through the window of his booth.

MED. SHOT TEN COURT

Guy and his opponent, Reynolds, in play.   Guy scores a point.

CLOSEUP THE UMPIRE

He announces game to Haines.

MED. LONG SHOT

We see the two men change ends and come toward the Umpiri's

chair. Reynolds stops to take a drink of water. Guy, with

an impatient glance at him, moves over to the passing line

and waits, the CAMERA going with him.

EXT. WASHINGTON STREET

A taxicab is seen coming along.

MED. SHOT INSIDE CAB (PROCESS)

Bruno is sitting with in unlighted cigarette in his mouth.

CAMERA MOVES IN until he is in big CLOSEUP. His eyes look

down.  There is the SOUND of a click, then, Guy's lighter

comes up into the picture held against the cigarette.

FADE IN

LONG SHOT FOREST HILLS STADIUM

Grouped.    A game is in progress.

MED. SHOT

A terrace where people get refreshments.       There are various

tables with umbrellas.

MED. SHOT AT ONE OF TABLE (PROCESS)

Guy is seated. He has his rackets with him and is waiting

his turn to start his match. An official is talking to him

but Guy keeps looking around as if expecting someone.

Anne hurries in, nods briefly to the official who has started

to leave, and sits down.

He makes a move as if to follow official toward the stadium,

but Anne puts hand on his arm.

Guy stares at her, takes a quick look toward the stadium,

then gives Anne his full attention.

Anne nods slowly.

While Anne is frantically trying to remember, Guy turns

toward, the stadium and gives a signal of "Be right there."

Guy's shoulders droop with disappointment.

REYNOLDS, Guy's opponent, ENTERS SCENE behind Guy's chair.

He walks away.   Anne and Guy rise, following him.

Guy's expression says she's right, as they walk toward the

stadium.

ENTRANCE TO COVERED STAND

Hennessy and Hammond, the two detectives, are standing by.

Guy and Anne come INTO THE SCENE just as the players from

the previous match emerge. They pass through, nodding to

Hennessy.

Guy gives him a thank-you nod. Hammond rolls his eyes in

disgust at Hennessy's politeness.

INSIDE THE STAND MED. SHOT

Anne is about to turn to her box but she is reluctant to

leave Guy, who must now join his opponent, Reynolds. As

their eyes hold, in mutual helplessness, Guy suddenly stares

at her with realization.

Anne looks puzzled as Guy looks up at the sun, then at his

watch.

MED. CLOSE SHOT REYNOLDS

waiting at the bottom of steps to the stand. Guy joins his

opponent, and Anne goes to her box. Guy and Reynolds move

onto the court amid the rounds of applause that greet them.

MEDIUM SHOT ANNE JOINS BARBARA

In the box.   She starts to whisper something to her.

LONG SHOT

Guy and Reynolds complete their warm-up as the umpire

announces that Guy is to serve. The game starts.

EXT. ANTONY HOME

A taxi is at the front door. Bruno is descending the steps.

He gets into the cab, which moves off.

FOREST HILLS MED. SHOT ANNOUNCER'S BOOTH

Over the shoulder of the announcer WE SEE the game in progress

through the window of his booth.

MED. SHOT THE COURT

Guy and his opponent, Reynolds, in play.   Guy scores a point.

CLOSEUP THE UMPIRE

He announces game to Haines.

MED. LONG SHOT

We see the two men change ends and come toward the Umpire's

chair. Reynolds stops to take a drink of Water. Guy, with

an impatient glance it him, moves over to the passing line

and waits, the CAMERA going with him.

EXT. WASHINGTON STREET

A taxicab is seen coming along.

MED. SHOT INSIDE TAXI CAB

Bruno is sitting with an  unlighted cigarette in his mouth.

CAMERA MOVES IN until he  is in big CLOSEUP. His eyes look

down.  There is the SOUND  of a click, then Guy's lighter

comes up into the picture  held against the cigarette.

INT. ANNOUNCER'S BOOTH FOREST HILL

The announcer is broadcasting the progress of the match and

we learn from him that this first set is nearly finished.

LONG SHOT THE COURT

Guy and Reynolds in play.

MED. SHOT

Anne and Barbara sitting in their box watching the play

anxiously.

MED. SHOT

At the entrance to the covered stand. The two detectives

Hennessy and Hammond, are watching. Hammond is bored by

this game.

MED. SHOT

Guy playing hard but holding his own.

MED. SHOT

Reynolds, his opponent, playing back.

LONG SHOT

The big crowd watching.

MED. SHOT

Guy scores point over Reynolds.

MED. SHOT

There is general applause from the crowd in the covered stand

as we HEAR the Umpire's announcement.

EXT. UNION STATION WASHINGTON D.C.

We see Bruno get out of a cab and pass into the depot.

LONG SHOT FOREST HILLS

The game in process.

MED. SHOT

A nearer view of the game.

CLOSE SHOT GUY IN PLAY

volleying with Reynolds.

CLOSE SHOT

Reynolds playing the covered stand people are concentrating.

MED. SHOT

Guy misses a point and the game. He and Reynolds make for

the Umpire's chair. We HEAR the Umpire announce.

INT. UNION STATION WASHINGTON, D.C.

Bruno is casually waiting for the train.   He stands near a

news-stand reading a paper.

INSERT:

We see that the paper is open at the sports page. There is

a picture of Guy among other tennis players. WITH A DISSOLVE

the whole character of this page changes with the exception

of Guy's picture, which becomes surrounded with large type,

announcing the arrest of Guy Haines for the murder of his

wife Miriam. A sub-heading tells of Guy's cigarette lighter

found at the scene of the crime. All this DISSOLVES AWAY

and the page becomes once more the sports section.

CLOSEUP

Bruno looks up with satisfaction.

LONG SHOT FOREST HILLS

The crowd watching.

MED. SHOT

Guy and Reynolds in play.

MED. SHOT

Guy playing hard.

MED. SHOT

Reynolds playing back.

CLOSEUP

The Umpire watching the game.   Suddenly he announces:

INT. CLUB CAR ON TRAIN

Bruno is now seated in his accustomed place in the club car.

His gloved fingers are quietly toying with Guy's lighter. A

passenger next to him asks:

Bruno looks at him for a moment and then at the lighter.

With great deliberation he puts the lighter away in his pocket

and takes out book-matches. Lighting a match, he holds it

to his fellow passenger's cigarette.

LONG SHOT FOREST HILLS

The game as seen from under the covered stand.

MED. SHOT

Anne and Barbara very tense.

CLOSEUP GUY

about to serve, looks anxiously across the court.

CLOSEUP THE CLOCK

CLOSEUP GUY

as he serves.

CLOSEUP REYNOLDS

returns.

CLOSEUP BALL

hits the net.

CLOSEUP UMPIRE

announces.

There is a round of applause. We see the heads of the two

players reach the Umpire's chair. Guy, very anxious still,

as he wipes his neck with a towel.

INT. COVERED STAND CLOSE SHOT ANNE BARBARA

Anne is speaking.

Barbara nods and goes along.

ENTRANCE TO COVERED STAND

Barbara smiles winningly at Hennessy as she goes through.

Her interpretation of "acting natural" is exaggerated and

rather comical. Hammond's eyes narrow as he looks after her

suspiciously.

LONG SHOT

The game in progress.   Guy starts the next set.   He serves.

MED. SHOT

Reynolds returns.

MED. SHOT

Guy volleys.

MED. SHOT

Reynolds puts the ball in the air.

CLOSE SHOT

Guy smashes.

CLOSE SHOT

The ball hits the net.

CLOSEUP UMPIRE

LONG SHOT THE CROWD

We HEAR the smash of the ball and the voice of the Umpire.

CLOSEUP ANNE

looking very worried.       Again the call of the Umpire.

INT. THE ANNOUNCER'S BOOTH

The announcer telling his listeners that Guy Haines seems to

be a little reckless.

EXT. METCALF STATION

We see Bruno alight from the train.    He makes his way in the

direction of the town.

MED. SHOT METCALF STATION

As Bruno comes toward us, he stands on   the sidewalk and then

takes the lighter from his pocket once   more. At this moment

a hurrying passenger on his way to the   depot accidentally

jogs Bruno's elbow. The lighter flies    from his hand.

CLOSE SHOT

We see it fall through the bars of a grating by the sidewalk.

CLOSEUP BRUNO

looks down in dismay.

FOREST HILLS MED. SHOT

The game in progress. Guy and his opponent playing hard.

Guy misses a point. We HEAR the Umpire's call.

EXT. METCALF STATION

Bruno is leading a porter toward the grating, pulling him by

the arm. They reach the drain.

Two passersby enter.

He goes on his knees and forces his arm down the drain.

INT. THE ANNOUNCER'S BOOTH FOREST HILLS

MED. SHOT

Guy is volleying.

MED. SHOT

Reynolds lobs.

CLOSEUP

Guy smashes.

CLOSE SHOT

Reynolds lobs again.

CLOSE SHOT

Guy smashes.

CLOSE SHOT

Reynolds misses and the ball hits inside the line.

CLOSEUP

The Umpire calling.

EXT. METCALF STATION MED. SHOT

A few more passersby have stopped to watch Bruno, whose arm

is pushed through the grating.

CLOSEUP

Bruno's face -- straining.

CLOSEUP

Under the grating Bruno's hand is groping.   His fingers are

a long way from the lighter.

LONG SHOT FOREST HILLS

with the game in progress.

MED. SHOT EXT. CLUB

A taxi has pulled up.    Barbara gets out.

CLOSE SHOT

She takes the ten dollar bill from her purse and passes it

to the driver. She gives a final look inside the cab.

CLOSEUP

On the seat are Guy's everyday pants, laid out.

MED. SHOT

Barbara hurries out of the picture toward the club.

LONG SHOT

The crowd watching.

CLOSEUP

The tense face of Anne.

CLOSEUP

The Umpire is somewhat impressed.

INT. THE ANNOUNCER'S BOOTH CLOSEUP

The announcer is telling his listeners that the score is now

six-five in favor of Haines. That he has pulled up

wonderfully and only needs one more game to win the match.

EXT. COVERED STAND ENTRANCE

Barbara, very nervous but trying to "act natural", passes

Hennessy and Hammond. Hammond's eyes again follow her, but

Hennessy is intent on the game.

MED. SHOT FEATURING BOX

As Barbara joins Anne, she gives her a surreptitious signal

by ringing her thumb and forefinger, indicating everything

is set.

CLOSE SHOT

Guy now playing hard.

CLOSEUP

His racket smashing at the ball.

CLOSEUP

Reynolds and his racket hitting the ball back.

CLOSEUP THE UMPIRE CALLING

CLOSEUP

Guy serving.

CLOSEUP

His ball hitting the racket.

CLOSEUP

The ball in the net.

CLOSEUP

A second ball hitting the net.    The Umpire's voice calling:

EXT. METCALF STATION

A LOW SHOT ON Bruno bent over the grating and the onlookers

behind him.

BIG HEAD CLOSEUP BRUNO

straining and panicky.

CLOSEUP

Under the grating, Bruno's fingers get near the lighter, and

in their groping, they knock the lighter off the ledge, onto

the ledge below.

CLOSEUP

Bruno's horror-stricken face.

FOREST HILLS MED. SHOT

Guy still playing.

CLOSE SHOT

Barbara standing with Hennessy, watching.    We HEAR the score.

CLOSEUP ANNE

unable to bear the suspense.    She glances O.S.

MED. SHOT

The waiting cab.

CLOSE SHOT

Guy and Reynolds in play.

CLOSE SHOT

Reynolds serves.

CLOSE SHOT

Guy volleys.    He waits for the return ball.   He misses it.

EXT. METCALF STATION

ANGLE SHOOTING THROUGH the grating at CLOSEUP BRUNO'S HEAD

AND SHOULDERS staining.

CLOSEUP

Under the grating, Bruno's fingers go lower and lower,

straining to reach the lighter, which is still a few inches

out of reach.

FOREST HILLS MED. SHOT

Guy is volleying with Reynolds.

INT. ANNOUNCER'S BOOTH

He is very excited.

CLOSEUP ANNE AND BARBARA

in their box.   They are extremely tense.

MED. SHOT

Guy slams hard a shot that wins him the game.

LONG SHOT CROWD

applauding and shouting.

CLOSE SHOT ANNE AND BARBARA

At an urgent signal from Anne, Barbara hurries out as if she

knew what she had to do.

LONG SHOT

Guy shakes hands with his opponent, and then hurries across

to Anne in the stand. He leans over the front of the box.

While congratulating him outwardly, she whispers something

to him. He leaves his racket with her and hurries away.

MED. SHOT STAND ENTRANCE

A block of people leaving cut off Hennessy's view.    Barbara

tries desperately to keep his attention off Guy.

MED. SHOT

Guy moving along the front of the stand making for another

exit.

CLOSE SHOT

Barbara takes it for granted that Hennessy will accept her

invitation.

SEMI CLOSEUP

Hammond is looking off.    He calls into the stand.

He points off toward Guy.

MED. SHOT

Guy is hurrying toward the public entrance of the stand.

SEMI CLOSEUP

Hennessy and Hammond move off, leaving a dismayed Barbara.

SEMI LONG SHOT

Guy hurrying under the stand toward the waiting cab.

MED. SHOT

The two men hurrying after him.

EXT. CLUB

Guy goes to the waiting cab and gets in.    The cab moves off.

MED. SHOT

The two men hurry out of the club and stand helplessly looking

after the departing cab. They hurry out of the picture.

CLOSE SHOT

We see them grab another car. It is a chauffeur-driven

limousine. Hammond jumps in front and seats himself beside

the driver. Hennessy hops in the back. The car moves off.

INT. LIMOUSINE TWO SHOT

Hennessy finds himself seated by an old dowager about seventy-

five years of age. She looks startled for a moment and almost

recoils from him. He shows her his badge.

The old lady's eyes light up.

She leans back and maintains her air of excitement as she

looks across at Hennessy.

CLOSE SHOT INSIDE THE TAXI

Guy is busy changing his pants.    He glances over his shoulder.

INT. CAR

The two men looking ahead toward Guy.

EXT. METCALF STATION

CLOSEUP BRUN0'S FACE - ANGLE SHOOTING UP to get the peering

faces behind him. Bruno still frantically trying to reach

the lighter.

CLOSEUP

Under the grating Bruno's fingers slowly closing in on the

lighter. They barely manage to grasp it.

CLOSEUP

BRUN0'S FACE -- triumphant.

CLOSEUP

Bruno's fist, holding the lighter, comes through the grating.

CLOSE SHOT

Bruno straightens up. CAMERA BACK as all the onlookers turn

their heads in his direction.

Bruno doesn't answer. With the lighter in his closed fist,

he darts through the crowd, the people looking after him.

LONG SHOT

The sun is much lower.

INT. CLUB CAR

Guy is now glancing at his watch.    The sun is behind him and

very much lower.

EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK

Bruno is looking at his watch and then across at the sky.

LONG SHOT FROM HIS VIEWPOINT

The last trace of the setting sun has gone.

EXT. METCALF STATION MED. SHOT

Guy is stepping off the train.    He crosses to a waiting taxi,

CAMERA FOLLOWING him.

CLOSE SHOT

As he gets in the Cab, we go to --

CLOSE SHOT MAN

watching Guy get into taxi. As we hear the taxi drive away,

the man hurries across to a waiting police car.

CLOSE SHOT

He puts his head in the side window and tells the two waiting

detectives where Guy has gone.

We see one of the detectives take up a microphone as the car

drives off.

EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK

It is now getting dark.

MED. SHOT

Bruno leaves his spot at the side of the tent and ambles

over toward the queue of people waiting for boats.

CLOSE SHOT BRUNO

joining the queue.    He glances ahead of him.

MED. SHOT FROM HIS VIEWPOINT

We see the light above the pay booth go on, shedding a

downward glare.

CLOSE SHOT BRUNO

pulls his hat a little further over his, eyes.   Some new

arrivals join the queue behind him.

INT. TAXI

Guy looking anxiously ahead on his way to the amusement park.

AMUSEMENT PARK ENTRANCE

We see a police car arrive. One uniformed man and two

detectives get out of the car and make their way toward the

entrance. One of to detectives stands at the entrance while

the other two hurry into the grounds.

MED. SHOT

Guy's taxi arrives.

MED. SHOT

Across the street, another police car arrives.

MED. SHOT

At Guy is paying his cab fare, he glances around him.

MED. SHOT FROM HIS VIEWPOINT

He sees one police car.

CLOSE SHOT GUY

gives a furtive glance around while waiting for his change.

MED. SHOT ANOTHER POLICE CAR

MED. SHOT

Guy cautiously makes his way toward the entrance to the

Amusement Park.

MED. SHOT

Guy passes the waiting detective and looks off.    From his

viewpoint we see:

MED. SHOT THE TWO DETECTIVES

who were at the station indicate Guy is the man.

MED. SHOT

One detective turns away and starts to follow Guy.

CLOSE SHOT BRUNO

in the queue of people. He is edging slowly along. He is

about ten people away from the entrance. He suddenly looks

ahead and sees.

FROM HIS VIEWPOINT

The uniformed man and the detective are talking casually to

the boat men in charge of the concession.

CLOSE SHOT

The boatman looks at them with an expression of alarm.

CLOSE SHOT BRUNO

begins to look a little uneasy.    We see him begin to mentally

deliberate.

MED. SHOT

Guy, threading his way through the crowds, conscious that he

is being followed, but nevertheless, on the lookout for Bruno.

CLOSE SHOT BRUNO

moving along the line. CAMERA MOVES IN until his head and

shoulders fill the screen. He is now coming within range of

the flood-lit pay-box. The light seems to creep up across

his chest and slowly reveal his face. He lowers his head.

MED. SHOT

The boatman begins to look along the queue. There is an

expression of growing recognition on his face.

MED. SHOT

Bruno sees this, makes a decision and casually deserts the

queue of people.

MED. SHOT

The boatman hurries across to the uniformed man and begins

to talk to him excitedly, looking in Bruno's direction.

MED. SHOT GUY

Coming along and looking for Bruno.    His eyes light up.

SEMI-LONG SHOT FROM HIS VIEWPOINT

We see Bruno making his way from the queue of people.

CLOSE SHOT GUY

calls to Bruno.

CLOSE SHOT BRUNO

gives a quick glance back, sees Guy then he turns and looks

off in another direction.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

The uniformed man and the boatman approaching him.

CLOSE SHOT

Bruno hurries on.    He stop short as he sees.

SEMI-LONG SHOT FROM HIS VIEWPOINT

Another uniformed man.

MED. SHOT

Bruno starts to run.

MED. SHOT

Guy starts to run after him.

MED. SHOT

Bruno is seen to jump on a merry-go-round, which is just

starting. Its pace is already pretty fast.

MED. SHOT

Guy runs toward Bruno.

CLOSE SHOT

The detective pulls out his gun and starts to run after Guy.

SEMI-LONG SHOT

Guy jumps on the merry-go-round after Bruno.   Its speed is

so great that he nearly gets flung off.

CLOSE SHOT

The detective fires at Guy.

CLOSE SHOT

The man running the machine in the center of the merry-go-

round is suddenly hit in the shoulder.

CLOSE SHOT

His hand, which is on the starting lever, jerks it down.

MED. SHOT

The detective, after Guy, jumps on the machine but is flung

off on his back.

FULL SHOT

The merry-go-round has now started to increase the speed.

CLOSE SHOT

Bruno at the far side is trying to jump off, but it's going

too fast.

LONG SHOT FROM HIS VIEWPOINT

We see the hard ground whizzing past him. Everything seems

to be a blur. We get a glimpse of screaming women and the

crowds rushing up from the midway.

CLOSE SHOT BRUNO

He turns and glances over his shoulder.

MED. SHOT FROM HIS VIEWPOINT

Guy is threading his way between the rising and falling

horses. Guy gets right up close to him.

TWO SHOT

As Guy comes near to Bruno, the latter turns on him and starts

to attack him.

MED.SHOT

Against the whirling background of the merry-go-round, Turley

and Campbell rush up as the detective struggles to his feet,

slightly hurt. The noise from the calliope is very loud.

At this moment the boatman rushes up.

CLOSE SHOT ON MERRY-GO-ROUND

Guy and Bruno in a struggle. Guy has to protect himself

from a madman whose hands attempt to reach his throat.

They are staggering across between the rising and falling

horses.

MED. SHOT OUTSIDE MERRY-GO-ROUND

A detective turns to the group around hIm.

An elderly man in soiled work clothes speaks up.

Immediately the workman heads straight for the merry-go-round

and starts to crawl under it on his stomach.

A second detective speaks to him quizzically.

The first detective leans over and looks off toward the

workman who is continuing his slithering way under the

machine, then straightens up.

MED. SHOT GUY AND BRUNO

Bruno swings around till his back is to us. He pushes Guy

toward the edge, but Guy manages to grab the rein of the

nearest horse. The momentum of the machine swings Guy around

against the horse, whose big head towers in the f.g. Bruno,

on this side of the horse pushes forward and tries to grab

the reins from Guy's hand. He tries to slash at Guy's face.

The back of Bruno's head is toward us during this. Guy

suddenly leans out across the horse and smashes his fist

against Bruno's face. Bruno's head goes back until it is in

the f.g. in a upside-down position.

MED. SHOT

THE CAMERA IS LOW so that we get the effect of Bruno falling

into the CAMERA from Guy's blow!

MED. SHOT

In the f.g. is a young boy of four years. He is excited by

the speed of the ride and laughs at the fight with great

enjoyment. He sees this by suddenly glancing over his

shoulder. In the b.g. Guy and Bruno are continuing their

fight. Bruno rises. Guy staggers after him. Bruno again

leaps upon Guy. The two men sway toward the CAMERA until

Bruno gets alongside the little boy. The boy now shows some

anxiety. The three figures now fill the screen with the

horses' heads in the f.g. Bruno is forced against the little

boy, who now, alarmed, beats Bruno on the cheek with one

hand, the other holding onto the brass rail in front. Bruno

stops and with a sweep of his arm, knocks the little boy off

the horse onto the floor below. The little boy, in falling,

grabs the horse's rein or stirrup.

CLOSE SHOT

Guy breaks away from Bruno and dives around the back of the

horse to grab the little boy.

CLOSE SHOT

As Guy grabs the boy, he staggers forward with him to a small

gondola. Bruno leaps onto his back but Guy manages to put

the boy in the gondola.

CLOSE SHOT UNDERNEATH THE WHIRLING MERRY-GO-ROUND

The boat man is making slow progress.

FROM HIS VIEW POINT

We see his goal. It is the wounded mechanic in the center,

who is slightly stirring. All during this the base of the

merry-go-round is skimming above the back and head of the

boat man.

BACK ON MERRY-GO-ROUND

The two men are now in a clinch. Guy tries to fight off the

maddened Bruno. They are flung between the horses, bouncing

one against the other, almost half way around the merry-go-

round.

CLOSE SHOT BRUNO AND GUY

Again they struggles between two horses. On each side of

them are two young screaming girls. The two bounce from one

horse to the other.

CLOSE SHOT

The calliope has little figures and these boat away on their

cymbals almost as though they are applauding what's going

on.

CLOSE SHOT

Underneath the merry-go-round, the boat man has made further

progress. He is creeping inch by inch. His nose starts to

run. He starts to fumble for a dirty piece of handkerchief.

He blows his nose and then moves on.

CLOSE SHOT

Back above the two men swinging past the two girls on their

horse and they both crash to the floor underneath another

horse, upon which is riding side-saddle, a mother and her

three-year-old little girl.

CLOSEUP

The two big heads of the men, battling. The two men roll

underneath the horse's hoofs, which are seen rising and

falling. They get right underneath one horse.

CLOSEUP

Guy has turned over on his back and his eyes look up.

CLOSEUP FROM HIS VIEWPOINT

We see the big horse's head above and its hoofs coming down

toward the CAMERA and filling the screen. We get a faint

impression of the screaming mother hugging her child to her

breast, above.

BIG CLOSEUP THE HORSE'S HOOFS

striking Guy's head.

CLOSE SHOT

Guy wrenches himself out of this position. He rolls away

from the CAMERA right to the edge of the merry-go-round. He

manages to grab a rail.

MED. SHOT

Guy's body is flung out horizontally. We see the crowd behind

back-up for fear of being knocked over. The screw of tension

increase. Over this comes the sound of an approaching

ambulance siren.

CLOSE SHOT

Bruno edges himself toward Guy. He is hanging on to the

reins of a horse. His feet manage to roach Guy's knuckles.

CLOSEUP BRUNO'S VICIOUS EXPRESSION

CLOSEUP BRUNO'S FEET

kicking at Guy's knuckles.

CLOSEUP GUY'S AGONIZED EXPRESSION

MED. SHOT

A flash of the horror-stricken faces of the spectators seen

through the whirling machine.

CLOSEUP

Machinery and the lever that was pulled on too fast. The

Boatman's hand comes up into the picture and pulls the lever

over.

LONG SHOT

The sudden braking causes the whole merry-go-round to topple

over with a grinding roar.

LONG SHOT FROM HIGH ANGLE

The merry-go-round his keeled over. For a moment we don't

know who has survived. There is a surge of people milling

and shouting. Those who have jumped back out of the way

when the merry-go-round toppled, now rush forward again as

the cloud of dust settles. From the midway in the background

others are running forward.

MED. LONG SHOT

Distraught parents try to force their way to their children

who were on the merry-go-round, but are hold back from the

wreckage by police.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

Guy is somewhat stunned from his fall. He is helped to his

feet by some men in the crowd. His knuckles are bleeding.

In the background people are rushing about. The crowd is in

uproar as women and children are helped from the wreckage.

Officials and uniformed policemen pushing back the surge of

the crowd.

Turley and Campbell rush in to Guy.

Guy is surrounded by police and Campbell stands at his elbow.

At this moment the boatman runs in. One of the detectives

is with him.

The detective who was holding Guy instinctively relax his

hold on Guy's arm. Turley turns to Guy, puzzled.

He leads the way.   They follow.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

as Guy and Turley enter to the  spot where Bruno is pinned

under the overturned machine.   He is caught between two of

the horses, the head of one of  them across his chest. Bruno's

head sags back somewhat, but is  resting on pieces of debris.

A uniformed policeman looks up  from Bruno to Turley:

Guy is shocked at the sight of Bruno.

Bruno opens his eyes and sees Guy.

Turley has leaned forward to look at the helpless Bruno.

Guy looks around desperately, frustrated for a moment as

Turley eyes him stonily. Then he turns again to Bruno.

Guy looks around helplessly to Turley, who looks back at him

suspiciously.

Turley leans over to look.

CLOSE SHOT BRUNO'S FIST FROM TURLEY'S VIEWPOINT

As Bruno is dying, his closed fist slowly starts to open.

Guy's lighter is now revealed in Bruno's open hand.

MED. SHOT GROUP

Turley takes the lighter from the dead Bruno's hand. Guy is

watching him. Turley straightens up and holds the lighter

out to him.

Guy nods without speaking, and with a half look in Bruno's

direction.

Turley turns back to the group around Bruno. Guy looks down

for a moment at Bruno, then speaks to the boatman, who is

standing nearby.

Guy looks back sympathetically in Bruno's direction, speaks

without looking at the boatman.

He moves off through the crowd.

INT. BURTON STUDY NIGHT

Anne, Barbara and the Senator are sitting silently in the

attitudes of waiting. The telephone rings. Anne is instantly

on her feet. Barbara and the Senator watch her anxiously as

she goes to answer it.

She hangs up, turns slowly, to face Barbara and her father.

Her expression is one of intense relief.

With a sob, Barbara flings herself into Anne's arms. As she

cries, Anne strokes her head comfortingly. Then with a half-

choked sobs Anne, too, begins to cry. She speaks through

her tears, looking over Barbara's shoulder at her father.

The Senator eyes them a moment, then speaks a little wryly:

INT. PARLOR OF TRAIN NEXT DAY

Anne and Guy are sitting quietly together. Opposite them is

a man in a clerical collar who is reading a sports magazine.

On the cover is a picture of a tennis player in action. The

man looks over the top of his magazine at Guy, with

recognition. He leans forward.

Guy and Anne exchange a  brief look, rise hurriedly and start

to walk away before the  conversation can go any farther.

The cleric looks after  them with a frown and a puzzled shrug

of his shoulders, as if  to say, "Did I  say something wrong?"

