Grove Hill Productions Release Edit Draft

EXT. LAFORCHE HOME - DAY

Sun spikes through the jostling leaves of a maple tree. A

strong wind bends them back, showing their light green

bellies.

This is a modest house in a row of modest houses. Propane

tanks and farmland at their backs show this neighborhood to

be more rural than suburb.

CURTIS LAFORCHE(35) stands in his driveway. His eyes, locked

on the sky, narrow as he stares at...

A STORM CELL stretching out on the horizon in front of him.

It's a bruised sky filled with a vicious mixture of black and

gray clouds. They swirl in and out of one another sending

wispy tentacles toward the ground.

Curtis stands, awestruck.

The clouds move fast overhead. He looks up as they overtake

his position. A light rain begins.

The rain pats the ground. It makes soft indentions on his

cotton shirt. He watches it hit the concrete, falling harder

now. He notices something strange.

The rain makes dark spots on the sidewalk. He pulls his

shirt out and sees dark spots forming there. He holds his

palm out flat in front of him. The rain pools.

He rubs the water through his thumb and fingers. It's an

amber color, viscous, like fresh motor oil.

Curtis looks to the sky, the rain pelting his face now.

Jagged, angry clouds blanketing overhead. The wind bends

back the trunk of the maple tree.

Curtis stands alone at the base of the surging STORM CELL.

TITLE: TAKE SHELTER

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Curtis holds his head under the running shower nozzle. Cool,

clean water rushes over his face.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

SAMANTHA(29) stands at the stovetop stirring eggs in a pan.

She's still dressed in her sleeping attire, an oversized T-

shirt and pajama bottoms with cartoon frogs on them.

HANNAH(5) sits at the kitchen table tearing up a piece of

toast and feeding it to the dog.

Hannah is a blonde little girl with a large hearing aid

wrapped over her right ear. It clips into her hair near the

back of her head. The dog's name is Red, a Rhodesian

Ridgeback that appreciates the attention.

Curtis enters the kitchen and kisses Hannah on the head. In

the same motion, he takes the piece of toast from her hand

and sets it on her plate.

Hannah immediately picks the piece of toast back up and feeds

it to the dog. Samantha brings the pan over and spoons eggs

out on everyone's plates.

Samantha takes her seat at the table.

Curtis gets up and goes to Hannah.

He kneels beside his daughter's chair and waits for her to

make eye contact. She looks over at him. He speaks using

sign language. Three broad, slow gestures.

Hannah puts her arms around his neck and he squeezes her. He

stands and grabs a sack lunch off the counter. On his way

out, he kisses Samantha on top of the head.

Samantha sips her coffee as Hannah feeds more toast to the

dog.

EXT. LAFORCHE HOME - DAY

Curtis shoulders his way out the front screen door. Keys in

his mouth and sack lunch in his hand, he makes his way down

the porch steps and onto the front walk.

He pops open the chain-link gate and heads for the PICK-UP

parked on the street. Clear blue sky overhead.

EXT. SOYBEAN FIELD - DAY

Small soybean plants slouch in the noonday sun. A slight

breeze picks up, jostling the leaves, but the sound is

drowned out by a loud, mechanical rumbling.

A spiral drill churns up dark soil as it digs deeper into the

ground. Curtis, wearing work goggles, grabs hold of the

drill's cabling system and yanks down.

He yells to DEWART(36), a big guy sitting at the controls of

a diesel powered WELL-DRILLING RIG. The truck has a long

rusted bed with metal scaffolding raised HIGH on its back.

Curtis looks back to a potential STORM. Gray clouds forming

across the horizon.

INT. LAFORCHE HOME - DAY

Samantha sits at a table running a long piece of sheer fabric

through her sewing machine. She's making curtains.

NAT(37) sips a screwdriver from a clear plastic cup designed

not to sweat. She's a woman with rough edges.

CAMMIE(24) cradles a brown-haired BABY on top of her

pregnant, eight month belly.

As Nat speaks, she looks out a sliding glass door at her two

kids, DJ(7) and SUE(5), playing with Hannah.

Cammie laughs.

Samantha jumps up from her sewing to see outside. Hannah,

with her back to the house, bangs a 2 X 4 with a rusted nail

in the end into the ground. Samantha is out the door.

EXT. BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS

Samantha walks briskly, talking to the other children.

Samantha takes a wide line around Hannah, who continues

banging the two-by-four into the ground. As soon as the

child sees her mother, she stops.

Samantha crouches in front of Hannah, gently taking the board

away from her. Samantha signs with her hand and speaks at

the same time.

Hannah tilts her head, looking off to the side. Samantha

touches her chin bringing her eyes back around.

Hannah nods once, "yes".

Samantha stands and takes the board to a trash pile in the

back corner of the yard. A STORM SHELTER is buried in the

ground just behind the pile. It's a grass covered mound with

two rusted metal doors angled toward the sky.

She throws the board onto the heap and wipes her hands on her

pants. Staring at the pile, she lets out an irritated sigh.

Thunder rumbles low in the distance. She looks up at the

approaching clouds and calls to the children as she walks

back inside.

EXT. SOYBEAN FIELD - DAY

THUNDER STRIKE.

The drill bit spins as rain pelts the ground turning the dark

soil into black mud.

Curtis holds a rain slicker over his head. He watches as the

hole they are drilling fills up with brown water. He lifts

his boot, which makes a sucking sound as it dislodges from

the mud.

Looking at the horizon, he sees no sign of the storm letting

up. He looks to Dewart, who smiles at him from behind the

controls of the rig.

Dewart gladly eases back on the lever at his knee.

I/E. LAFORCHE HOME - LATE AFTERNOON

Samantha holds the front door open as Nat and Cammie leave

with their children packed up and in tow. It's raining

pretty hard outside.

Running for her car holding a jacket covered car seat.

Samantha closes the door and listens to her quiet house. The

rain outside is the only noise. She heads to the kitchen.

IN THE KITCHEN,

Hannah is sitting Indian-style at the glass doors watching

the rain. Samantha walks over and kneels down behind her.

She wraps her arms around Hannah, who lifts a hand to the

glass.

Samantha puts her hand onto the glass next to Hannah's and

signs "s-t-o-r-m". Hannah turns to see her mother's face,

and Samantha uses both hands to make the signed symbol.

Fingers, spread and bent, moved downward.

Hannah looks back out the window. They watch the storm

together.

I/E. CURTIS' TRUCK/DEWART'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The blue top of a small cooler is knocked to the floorboard

as Dewart fishes the last Busch tallboy out of icy water. He

cracks it open and takes an extended sip.

Curtis, sitting behind the wheel of his truck, looks at his

drunk friend.

Dewart starts laughing, which makes Curtis laugh.

The laughing subsides.

Dewart is staring at Curtis.

Curtis shrugs.

Dewart sees something out his window.

Nat, in a house robe and slippers, weaves her way through the

maze of junk on their front lawn.

Dewart passes her without saying a word. Curtis watches as

she follows him inside the house, still talking. He shifts

into drive and pulls away.

INT. LAFORCHE HOME - NIGHT

The lights are out and the house is quiet. Curtis eases open

the front door and steps inside. Standing on the door mat,

he slips off his mud-caked boots and gently sets them aside.

AT HANNAH'S BEDROOM DOOR,

Curtis places his palm flat on the door and lets it open.

Hannah is curled up with the covers. He watches her sleep.

Samantha, barefoot and wearing a sleep shirt, walks up behind

Curtis. He turns his head when she approaches.

She wraps her arms around his waist and he lifts his elbow to

make room for her. They whisper.

It's quiet for a moment.

She smiles up at her husband.

He pulls her tight. They stand together in the doorway. The

house is silent.

EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - DAY

Curtis loads pieces from the trash pile into a wheelbarrow.

He keeps an eye on Hannah as she jumps on a small, plastic

playscape in the middle of the backyard.

The dog, Red, paces by the back door. He's agitated, but his

movement is limited by the length of rope tied from his

collar to a nearby post. He barks.

THUNDER STRIKES.

Curtis flinches at the loud boom. He looks to the sky and

sees dark clouds twisting overhead. Hannah plays, unaffected

by the noise.

To get a better view, Curtis moves from beneath a tree in the

corner of the yard and surveys the large swath of farmland

that runs up to his property.

Chain-link fencing partitions the yard from a deep concrete

culvert that leads out to the open field.

A giant STORM CELL gathers force on the horizon there.

Red barks incessantly. He winces and strains against the

rope tied to his collar.

Curtis flinches again as A BOLT OF LIGHTNING streaks to the

ground in the distance. Sparks shoot into the air leaving a

circle of scorched crops. Another CRACK of thunder.

A light rain begins. Red snaps his head around and bucks

into the air. He gnashes at the rope.

Curtis collects Hannah off the playscape and turns back to

the approaching STORM CELL. He holds up his hand and studies

the falling rain. It's the thick, amber colored liquid.

With Hannah in his arms, Curtis watches, awestruck, as wispy

tentacles drip to the ground forming a collection of THREE

TORNADOS out in the field.

Behind them, Red's teeth fray the rope at his collar. He

thrashes his head, the rope SNAPS, and the dog flies toward

Curtis and Hannah.

Curtis turns to see Red charging them. He barely has time to

set Hannah down before Red catches him by the forearm.

They crash to the ground, tangled together. Rain coming down

hard now.

Curtis yells and waves Hannah back. Red, snapping, buries

his teeth into the muscles in Curtis' arm. Blood streams

from the wound.

Curtis screams in pain.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Curtis bolts up in bed grabbing his forearm. He grinds his

teeth and doubles over in pain. It takes a moment for him to

find his bearings.

His breathing slows. He gently rubs his hand over the skin

on his arm. Sweat has collected around his collar and

temples.

From the bed, sheets in a twisted mess, he looks around the

room unsure of what just happened to him.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Eggs cool on a plate.

Curtis sits at the kitchen table dressed for work. He stares

vacantly at his breakfast.

He looks up at Hannah. She sits on the floor surrounded by

toy building blocks and plays with the dog. She rubs under

Red's chest and in turn he licks her face. She smiles and

gently pushes him away.

Samantha sits with her knees up drinking coffee.

Curtis stands up and goes over to Hannah. He grabs her off

the floor and she begins to protest with kicks and crying.

Curtis, against flailing, manages to get Hannah in her chair.

Curtis backs off, frustrated. Hannah climbs down from her

chair and goes back to the floor and the dog.

He stops and checks his watch.

Heading out.

Curtis is gone. Samantha looks at Hannah on the floor with

the dog.

INT. DELTA AGRI-PRO MAIN OFFICE - DAY

The main headquarters of Delta Agri-Pro is housed in a giant

metal building. A row of cheaply built, 70's style offices

with drop tile ceilings line the left of a large warehouse

that contains all manner of agricultural and construction

equipment. Tractors, backhoes, welding rigs, etc.

A GROUP OF MEN, many of which were represented at Gator's bar

yesterday, sit in folding chairs or stand in a semi-circle

around JIM THOMPSON(53). He speaks, clipboard in hand.

Dewart eats from a bag of Sunflower seeds. Curtis stares

down at his forearm. He rubs the skin there. Jim runs a

finger down his clipboard.

Curtis snaps his head up, takes a second.

Jim drops his head and the clipboard falls to his side. A

melodramatic move.

Curtis nods.

EXT. DELTA AGRI-PRO MAIN OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Curtis and Dewart walk to Curtis' truck.

INT. HOME DEPOT - DAY

Dewart stands by a flatbed cart with a prefab DOGHOUSE

sitting on it.

Curtis loads chain-link fencing materials onto the cart.

EXT. SOYBEAN FIELD - DAY

The wheels of the well-drilling rig are half sunk into the

muddy soil.

Curtis stands over the hole being drilled. The turning metal

pole suddenly seizes up and stops. Smoke begins to seep up

from the hole.

Dewart jumps down from the control panel to take a look.

Dewart walks back to his controls. Curtis heads to the cab

of the drilling rig and checks his watch.

Something catches his eye in the distance. Clearing past the

rig, he walks out into the adjacent field.

He removes his goggles, eyes fixed on the acres of farmland

that stretch for miles in front of him.

In the sky overhead,

AN ENORMOUS FLOCK OF BIRDS ROLL IN UNISON.

Hundreds of them make up a black swarm that twists and shifts

in the air. They dive bomb then ascend in intricate,

GEOMETRIC patterns.

Curtis watches, mesmerized.

Dewart strains a wrench against a bolt as the drill screeches

in reverse.

Curtis acknowledges Dewart but can't take his eyes off the

pattern of birds. They shrink and stretch from thick clumps

to long cylindrical tubes. A choreography.

Curtis reluctantly heads back to the rig, which is shrieking

with the SOUND of metal on metal.

Curtis looks back, giving the birds a final review.

I/E. CURTIS' TRUCK/HOUSE - EVENING

The sun has just set adding a purple hue to the sky. Curtis

steers his truck up to the front curb of his house.

THROUGH HIS WINDSHIELD,

He sees Samantha standing by her car, the back door open.

She watches him pull up. Hannah is already packed into her

car seat.

PARKED,

Curtis climbs out and walks to the driveway.

Samantha isn't having it. She climbs in the passenger seat.

Curtis makes his way to her car.

INT. SPECIAL EDUCATION CLASSROOM - NIGHT

Curtis' work boots are encased in dry mud. Chunks have

broken off and pepper the thin blue industrial carpet. His

mud-stained fingers tap on the top of a desk. Dirt caked

under his nails.

Curtis sits, filthy, at a school desk he doesn't quite fit

into. A TEACHER speaks to a ROOM FULL of PARENTS.

Curtis looks over at Samantha, who is sitting in the desk

next to him. She won't look at him.

He cranes his neck around to see toward the back of the room.

An ASSISTANT TEACHER sits on a large, colorful rug with a

GROUP of CHILDREN, all different ages, playing games that

teach hand signs. Hannah actively participates in the group.

Curtis turns back in his chair and makes the sign for "dad"

along with the other parents.

INT. SPECIAL EDUCATION CLASSROOM - NIGHT - LATER

Curtis, Samantha, and Hannah sit on the floor in a circle

atop the colored rug.

Samantha turns over large flashcards with illustrated scenes

on them. They take turns making the corresponding sign.

Curtis stares at Samantha, but she's still giving him the

cold shoulder. Finally, while holding up a card, she looks

at him. He signs, "I'm sorry". A fist moving in a circular

motion at his chest.

She looks to Hannah and signs, "swim".

He smiles.

She smiles, begrudgingly, and then signs to Hannah, "Dad" and

"stink". Curtis turns to some ladies behind him.

Samantha laughs and tries to cover his mouth with her hand.

They continue to laugh.

INT. CURTIS' TRUCK - DAY

Curtis slams the door to his truck, sealing him off from the

torrential rainfall outside.

He shakes water off, wipes his face. The windows are smeared

by thick, dark rain. It's hard to see out.

He looks over to Hannah sitting in her car seat. It looks

odd on the front bench of the truck. He signs to her.

She nods. He cranks the truck and turns on the wipers. The

liquid on the windshield streaks into long smudges. Curtis

leans forward to get a better view of the street. He checks

his blind spot and pulls away.

MOVING FAST ON A MAIN ROAD,

Stop lights blur into hazy red and green spheres.

Curtis checks the rearview, but the back window is covered by

the rain. He tries rolling down his window, but water blows

in. He rolls it back up and the smudging gets worse.

The truck shimmies from left to right, pushed by the wind. A

THUNDER STRIKE rattles.

Suddenly,

THE SHAPE OF A PERSON STANDING IN THE ROAD.

Curtis stomps on the brakes and turns the wheel. The truck

hydroplanes.

CRASH! Curtis' head busts against the steering column. The

front windshield cracks as the truck jerks to a stop.

The HISS of a broken radiator. Curtis winces from the blow

to his head. Hannah is crying. He reaches over to her.

Hannah physically looks all right, but she continues crying.

Curtis reaches out and places a hand on her head. He's

dazed, mumbling.

The truck is angled up slightly like the front end has inched

up a pole. A cut on his forehead has begun to bleed.

He sees movement. A PERSON passes by the hazy side window.

A SHAPE moves past the driver's window.

The truck shifts as weight is added to the bed. The SOUND of

SOMEONE pulling things from the back of the truck. A moment.

WHACK! Curtis flinches as a 2X4 pounds the windshield.

The truck jostles from the weight of someone jumping on the

hood.

Bump. Bump.

The roof caves in with two FOOTSTEPS.

Curtis looks around frantically. He reaches over to Hannah

and begins to unstrap her from the car seat.

SMASH! A BOARD breaks through the Passenger Window.

A WOMAN, pale and aggressive, stands in the rain storm

staring through the broken glass. She reaches for the lock.

Curtis pulls Hannah from the child seat and recoils against

his door but is jolted as another board CRASHES through the

driver's window.

A HAND yanks Curtis by his collar. He's pulled against the

door. A pasty forearm wraps around his neck, choking him.

He strains against the arm. Sucks air. Needing to breath.

The Woman at the passenger door grabs for Hannah. Curtis

kicks at her.

A MAN's boot KICKS OUT the back window. The Man in the bed

of the truck reaches for Curtis' face. He flails and kicks,

unable to break free from the forearm at his door.

The Woman gets hold of Hannah. The child is yanked from

Curtis' arms. He screams.

Hands claw at Curtis' face. Scratching. Blood streaks. The

Woman has disappeared into the storm with Hannah.

Curtis screams. Fingers swoop into his open mouth, grabbing

hold of his cheek. They pull the cheek back. TEARING.

He yells in pain.

INT. HALLWAY/KITCHEN - DAY

Samantha walks down the hallway holding Hannah's shoes.

Hannah trails behind her.

IN THE KITCHEN,

Samantha walks in. Curtis is standing at the counter in his

undershirt and boxers pouring a cup of coffee.

Curtis doesn't turn to greet her. He just stirs a spoon in

the black coffee.

Samantha walks up to him and puts a hand on his back. She

notices that his shirt is soaked with sweat.

He turns, taking a sip from the mug. She feels his forehead.

Curtis walks to the table and takes a seat.

She heads for the hallway.

Samantha walks to her purse on the counter and roots through

to find a set of keys.

This reminder makes Curtis rub his face with a grunt.

She heads for the door with Hannah.

Samantha scoops up her bag and takes Hannah by the hand. They

leave the room.

Curtis notices the dog, Red, sitting on his haunches looking

at him. Curtis stares back, sipping his coffee.

EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - DAY

The reverse lights shine as Curtis' pick-up rumbles backward.

Curtis eyes the side mirror as he maneuvers the truck into

his backyard. In the mirror, the trash pile comes into view.

Just behind it, the STORM SHELTER doors appear.

The truck shutters to a stop. Curtis studies the Shelter in

the side mirror for a moment. A grassy bulge with angled

metal doors peeking over the trash heap. He climbs out.

A blue tarp is pulled from the bed of the truck, floating

down to the yard.

Curtis slips on a pair of work gloves and continues to eye

the Storm Shelter. He yanks a bale of chain-link from the

bed of the truck and carries it to the back corner of the

yard. He steals another glance back toward the Shelter.

Dropping the bale, he sizes up the space. He looks to the

sky. It's a beautiful day.

He begins counting off steps from the back fence line.

INT. FLEA MARKET - SERIES OF IMAGES - DAY

-A linen sheet floats down over a folding table.

-The hanging bag is placed on a portable clothes rod.

-Hands place an assortment of home sewn crafts like napkins

and embroidered pillows out onto the table.

-A tackle box is opened revealing a tray of small bills and

change. A calculator is removed.

Hannah kneels in front of a folding chair behind their BOOTH

at an open-air flea market. She uses the seat of the chair

as a table for a tiny porcelain tea set.

Samantha stands over her display table smiling and nodding at

perusing CUSTOMERS.

EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - SERIES OF IMAGES - DAY

-A mallet drives tall metal stakes into the ground.

-The cord holding together the bale of chain-link is snipped

and a boot rolls the fencing out flat.

-Chain-link is attached to the stakes with a number of metal

braids.

-The prefab DOGHOUSE is set down in the back corner.

Curtis stands in front of his newly created dog pen. It's

waist high and about 7' X 10', tucked in the back left corner

of the yard so that half of the pen is made up by the

existing fencing.

INT. FLEA MARKET - DAY

Samantha turns to see a large woman holding up an intricately

embroidered pillow.

You can tell by the look of her that she's a flea market pro,

a BARGAIN HUNTER(54).

Samantha looks at the woman, who is almost daring her.

The woman sets down the pillow and begins looking over other

items on the table. Samantha bites the inside of her cheek.

She doesn't like to haggle.

The woman doesn't look up.

Samantha forces a smile and motions to Hannah.

The woman smiles and removes a Ziplock bag of assorted coins

from her purse. Hannah takes the bag.

Hannah opens the bag and begins to turn it over.

EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - DAY - LATER

Curtis unlatches a piece of the braided wire holding a

separated section of fencing that acts like a gate.

He opens it and looks down at Red, who sits at his feet. He

speaks gently to the dog.

Red walks into the pen.

Curtis closes the gate, kneels and places his hands on the

fence. Red approaches so that his nose is touching Curtis'

fingers. Curtis scratches him.

Curtis stands, wiping his hands off on his jeans. He sees

the Storm Shelter poking up from behind the trash pile. He

looks down at Red.

Curtis walks to the Shelter. Clearing past the trash pile,

the shelter appears, the mound fully visible.

Curtis stops at the angled doors. He studies them. A rusted

padlock is snapped shut across the handles. He reaches out

and lifts up the padlock. He yanks on it, then lets it fall.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Coins splash across the kitchen counter. Curtis sets an

empty coffee can back on the shelf in front of him and begins

sifting through the change.

Odd screws, buttons, then he gets to what he's looking for.

A small set of brass keys on a matching ring. He grabs the

keys from the pile and exits.

EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS

Curtis walks back out to the storm shelter, keys in hand,

long flashlight in his back pocket.

He pulls up the padlock that holds the two rusted doors

together. Popping off the rubber cover, he tries a key. The

lock pops up. He unhooks it from the doors and lets it fall

to the ground.

Curtis strains to pull the first door open. It's heavy and

sticks from lack of use. Finally, with a creak, the door

swings back.

Curtis holds his head to the side, a musty odor coming from

inside. He forces the second door open.

Curtis stands in front of the shelter, a gaping black hole

angled up from the earth.

He takes the flashlight from his pocket and turns it on. It

illuminates concrete steps leading down.

The dog, nose at the fence, watches from his pen on the other

side of the yard.

Curtis enters the shelter.

INT. STORM SHELTER - CONTINUOUS

It's pitch black inside. Curtis makes his way down the steps

and holds out the flashlight. An assortment of trash on the

ground, empty cans and water bottles, some candy wrappers.

The whole shelter is only about 6' X 8'. His head fits fine,

but he still ducks like he might bump it.

He shines the light on the back wall. A rotted, wooden bench

is bolted into the concrete there. Curtis walks to it and

takes a seat.

He's looking back toward the steps now. A shaft of light

cuts a strict beam through the open doors, lighting only the

concrete entry.

Curtis takes in the quiet of the concrete box. He leans his

head back on the wall and closes his eyes.

He shuts off his flashlight. Left in the dark, he takes a

deep breath. Exhales slowly.

INT. DEN - NIGHT

Curtis sits in his Lazyboy bent over a frozen dinner. He

watches the local news on TV. Samantha walks in with a glass

of milk and some Oreos, a magazine tucked under her arm.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Samantha takes a TIN down from the top of the fridge. It has

designs of starfish and other ocean creatures on it.

She sets the tin on the counter next to the tackle box she

uses as a cash register and yells to Curtis in the den.

Samantha counts out the money earned at the flea market. She

sets a portion aside and closes the tackle box. Curtis says

something, but it's inaudible.

She opens the tin and removes an envelope with the word

"BEACH" written on it in black sharpie. Samantha adds the

money to the envelope and puts up the jar. She opens the

fridge and takes out the milk.

Curtis' attention is on the TV. Samantha sits on the couch.

Curtis stares at the television program. Samantha's eyes

narrow. Frustrated, she flips open her magazine.

Her nose still in the magazine.

Samantha shakes her head. Curtis watches the footage of

Walter Jacobs. He watches his red rimmed eyes. The deep

lines in his face.

INT. LAFORCHE HOME - DAY

It's daytime, but the house feels dark from the storm blowing

outside. The SOUND of rain pelts the windows and roof.

Curtis, dressed for work, walks from his bedroom down the

hallway. He passes the den and stops at its entryway.

IN THE DEN,

Hannah sits on the couch with her back to him. She's on her

knees looking out one of the front windows.

A dull orange glow halos from the bank of windows. What

sunlight there is appears diffused by the dark, thick rain

smearing down the outside of the glass.

A THUNDER STRIKE.

Curtis flinches. He shows concern as heavier rain begins

battering the house. The wind picks up making wood beams

creak on their foundation.

Hannah doesn't move. She continues staring out the window.

The SOUND of the storm outside intensifies. Windows begin to

rattle in their frames.

Curtis walks over and reaches for Hannah but is startled by

the sight of a MAN'S FACE just outside the window. Hannah

and the Man have been staring at one another.

The Man, hollow eyed and pale, moves out of the window and

out of sight.

Thunder CRACKS overhead. Curtis scoops Hannah into his arms

and heads out of the room.

BANG. The front door rattles. Curtis stops and turns back.

BANG. BANG. The SOUND of someone kicking at the front door.

The storm outside has grown to a deafening pitch.

The power goes out.

The entire house vibrates, like a freight train running

across the roof. The BANGING at the front door continues,

frame giving way, as the STORM reaches its apex.

Curtis, holding Hannah, kneels and braces himself in the

entryway to the den. He covers the back of Hannah's head

with his hands and squeezes her tight into his shoulder.

Then Silence. A stillness.

The rain stops. No more banging at the front door. The SUN

moves brightly though the front windows.

WOOSH.

The furniture in the den lifts off the ground. A couch,

Lazyboy, coffee table and lamp. It all hangs in the air,

floating for a moment. Quietly.

Curtis watches, eyes wide. A rumbling. Grows. The SUNLIGHT

vanishes.

SMASH! The sound of the storm is sucked back into the room as

the furniture crashes to the floor, breaking apart on impact.

The windows BLOW OUT.

Curtis squeezes his eyes shut and pivots his body, trying to

protect Hannah. Shards of glass splinter across his face.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Curtis gasps for air. It doesn't come.

Gasp. He's sucking for a breath. Hyperventilating.

He rises up in bed, gasping. His face flushed and head

soaked in sweat. His eyes dart around the room, frantically

searching his surroundings.

One more gasp, and air enters his lungs. He coughs. More

air. Long, deep breaths. He's calming down.

His breathing comes under control. His attention turns to

something else. Something under the sheets.

Curtis pulls back the bed sheets. The mattress is soaked in

YELLOW urine. This scares him.

His hand trembles as he reaches out to touch his wet boxers.

The toilet FLUSHES. Footsteps in heels.

Curtis quickly pulls the covers back up. Samantha enters the

bedroom. She pulls her hair into a tight ponytail and picks

earrings off a nearby dresser, her back to Curtis.

She turns.

She approaches the bed and he holds his hand out.

She walks closer to the bed.

She's taken aback.

Samantha stomps out of the room. Curtis sighs. He halfway

lifts the sheet then lets it fall again.

INT. BEDROOM - LATER

Curtis strips the sheets off the bed.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

The laundry room is a stackable set squeezed into a closet

off the hallway.

Curtis loads the sheets into the washer and presses start.

Watching the clothes spin, a thought.

INT. DEN - DAY

Curtis pushes Hannah's shoe onto her foot. He stops with the

shoes to concentrate. He moves his index finger from one

shoulder to the other and speaks.

Confused, she slices her finger down an open palm.

EXT. GRAFTON PUBLIC LIBRARY - DAY

Curtis leads Hannah up the front walk of the Grafton Public

Library. It's a one-story brick building with 1960's

architecture. The parking lot is nearly empty behind them.

INT. GRAFTON PUBLIC LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

Curtis holds the glass front door open for Hannah. They stop

in the entryway and survey the LIBRARY.

There are only a few people, one of which is the LIBRARIAN

sitting behind a central desk. It is an open room with

cinder block walls painted in brightly colored shapes.

Curtis finds the children's section to the left and leads

Hannah over. She takes a seat at a kid's size table as

Curtis grabs a Dinosaur book from a nearby display.

Kneeling in front of her, Curtis shows her the book and

motions with open hands to the ground.

Hannah begins looking through the book. Curtis stands, he

sees a set of computers under a sign reading, "CATALOGUE".

AT THE COMPUTERS,

Curtis takes a seat in front of one of the two computers set

up on a folding table. He eyes the search screen. Title,

Author, Subject.

He clicks on "Subject" and types the word "DREAMS". He

scrolls through a list of titles and writes down a number.

He looks back for Hannah. She's still flipping through her

book. No one else is around.

He begins another search. He types "MENTAL ILLNESS".

AT THE BOOK SHELVES,

Curtis scans the spines looking for his title. He already

holds two books against his chest.

He pulls out a thick hard cover book. The title reads,

"Understanding Mental Illness."

I/E. CURTIS' TRUCK/GRAFTON STREETS - MOVING - DAY

Hannah is once again strapped into her car seat. She holds a

big children's book in her hands.

They pass a Grocery Store. Curtis turns as it goes by.

The truck pulls a U-turn in the street and heads for the

store parking lot.

INT. GROCERY STORE - DAY

Curtis pushes a cart down the aisle. Hannah rides in the

fold down metal seat.

They stop at the bottled water section. Curtis loads several

plastic, gallon jugs of water into his cart.

The cart is filled with an assortment of supplies:

Batteries, canned food, first aid supplies, matches.

INT. LAFORCHE HOME/DINING ROOM - DAY

Samantha sits in the dining room at a fully dressed table.

Steam rises off bowls of mashed potatoes and green beans.

Fried chicken piled on a platter.

MELVIN(58) taps his finger on the empty plate in front of him

and subtly checks his watch. JANINE(57) smooths out the

embroidered table cloth.

KATHRYN(37) and CHARLIE(39) tend to their child, REX(3). Rex

repeatedly jams a finger into the potatoes.

The SOUND of the front door opening. Samantha gets up and

leaves the room.

BY THE FRONT DOOR,

Curtis has Hannah in his arms. He closes the door. Samantha

appears behind them. She speaks in a hushed, angry voice.

Samantha heads back to the dining room. Curtis sucks his

teeth.

INT. LAFORCHE HOME/DINING ROOM - LATER

Potatoes dalloped, chicken passed, the table is active with

the family serving and eating. Curtis watches it all,

somehow separated from it. He's exhausted.

Curtis looks at him.

Curtis nods. The family in front of him eats the meal.

They look at him.

INT. LAFORCHE HOME/HALLWAY - EVENING

Light from the open closet door cuts a shape in the

relatively dark hallway.

Curtis roots through the back of the closet.

INT. STORM SHELTER - SERIES OF IMAGES - NIGHT

-Curtis sweeps the concrete floor of the storm shelter. A

Coleman camping lantern sits on the wooden bench attached to

the back wall. It casts an odd light up into the room.

-Curtis places cans of food onto metal shelves.

-Curtis flips through keys on his key ring. He adds the two

small padlock keys to the ring.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Samantha sits on the bed in her pajamas applying lotion to

her legs. She wipes the remainder on her knuckles and looks

at the empty spot on Curtis' side of the bed.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Samantha walks into the kitchen and turns off the overhead

light. She pauses, seeing something in the backyard.

She stops at the back door and stares out at the storm

shelter. The camp lantern's orange light glows through the

open metal doors.

She watches for a moment.

INT. STORM SHELTER - CONTINUOUS

The shelter has been cleaned up. The metal shelves hold

canned food, water jugs and first aid supplies. Blankets and

pillows are stacked on the other side of the room.

Curtis sits in the back corner of the shelter on the wooden

bench. He flips through one of the books from the library.

The cover reads, "DREAM ANALYSIS AND INTERPRETATION". The

book on mental illness sits by his feet.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE/RECEPTION AREA - DAY

The Doctor's Office is a converted one-story residential

house. Curtis slouches in a faux leather chair grouped in

the small reception area. He has nodded off.

His head snaps up. He sucks air through his nose and sits up

in his chair. He sees a WOMAN(25) reading a children's book

aloud to her DAUGHTER(3) on a colorful rug in the corner.

A door opens and a NURSE with a clipboard steps out.

Curtis stands and follows the nurse out of the room.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE/EXAM ROOM - DAY

Curtis sits, fully clothed, on the edge of a paper covered

bench in the exam room. DOCTOR SHANNAN, an older man with a

smoker's voice, enters smiling and gives a firm handshake.

The Doctor turns to a small table in the corner and grabs a

wooden tongue depressor and an otoscope from a drawer.

The Doctor shines the otoscope into his nostrils.

The Doctor pauses and turns to check a chart on the table.

Doctor Shannan takes a seat on a rolling stool and processes

the request.

Curtis isn't sure how much he wants to say.

Doctor Shannan leans his back against the table and thinks

about this.

He swivels the stool around and writes on a prescription pad.

He tears two sheets off and holds the first out to Curtis.

EXT. PUMP STATION CONSTRUCTION SITE/FARMLAND - DAY

The construction site sits in the middle of open farmland but

is considerably more involved than Curtis' last job site.

Dump trucks, backhoes and cement mixers roll and beep across

muddy ground. A 20 MAN CREW operates throughout.

NEAR THE WELL DRILLING RIG,

Dewart pushes down a lever that activates the hydraulic lift

for the drill. Curtis appears behind him.

Curtis kneels at the ground beside the rig. Sifts dirt

through his fingers.

EXT. PUMP STATION CONSTRUCTION SITE/FARMLAND - LATER

It's lunchtime. The men sit around in different groups

eating out of bagged lunches.

Curtis eats a sandwich and watches the men. Some bitching.

Others laughing.

Wind blows through a wooded area nearby. He watches the

leaves move. He looks to the sky. It's a beautiful day.

Almost peaceful.

EXT. SHEPHERD INSURANCE OFFICE - DAY

The insurance office sits in a row of small downtown

buildings.

INT. SHEPHERD INSURANCE OFFICE - DAY

An INSURANCE AGENT(62) sits behind her desk with the phone to

her ear. She's an older woman wearing a pant suit.

Samantha sits by a fake plant and sips a Coke. She watches

Hannah play with building blocks from a plastic tub provided

by the office.

The Agent writes something down.

The Agent hangs up the phone and rips a piece of paper from

the pad in front of her. She hands it to Samantha.

Samantha looks at the paper, impressed.

INT. GROCERY STORE PHARMACY - DAY

Curtis stands in line at the pharmacy located in the back

corner of the grocery store. He approaches the counter and

hands over his prescription to a female PHARMACIST.

She disappears behind a divider as Curtis removes his wallet.

He takes out an insurance card and runs his thumb over the

bills.

The Pharmacist returns with a stapled white bag. Curtis

holds out the insurance card.

Curtis studies the small paper sack and removes three, 20

dollar bills from his wallet.

INT. LAFORCHE HOME - EVENING

Curtis enters the front door, closing it behind him. He

turns and is met by Samantha, who wraps her arms around him.

She squeezes him. Then kisses him.

INT. KITCHEN - LATER

Curtis finishes off a dinner of roast and potatoes. Samantha

sets the piece of paper the Insurance Agent gave her in front

of him and begins clearing the table.

Hannah draws on a piece of construction paper at the other

end of the table. Samantha picks up a crayon and shows it to

Hannah.

She pretends to use the crayon as lipstick.

Hannah doesn't look up. He stands and goes over to her.

Touches her shoulder and kneels beside her.

Curtis touches his finger to her chest then stops. He can't

think of the sign. He turns to Samantha.

Samantha shows him the sign. Curtis mimics.

Hannah nods. He kisses her on the forehead. He picks up a

crayon and holds it up to her lips like lipstick.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Samantha lies under the covers looking at a real estate

magazine. Curtis takes off his clothes by the dresser. He

subtly removes a prescription bottle from his pants pocket

and cups it in his palm.

Curtis walks over and leans in to see the page. They are

rental photos of beach condos.

Samantha keeps flipping through the magazine as Curtis heads

to the bathroom.

INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Curtis turns the water on in the sink and shakes two pills

from the orange bottle. He stuffs them in his mouth and

chases it with water from the faucet.

Curtis looks at himself in the mirror for a moment before

cutting out the light.

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING

A crack in the ceiling slowly comes into focus.

Curtis sits up in bed, rubbing his eyes. He looks around the

room. He hears Samantha in the kitchen.

He takes a deep breath, smelling the breakfast cooking.

Curtis smiles.

INT. KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Curtis sits at the kitchen table as Samantha dishes up some

eggs.

Curtis nods and eats his breakfast.

EXT. PUMP STATION CONSTRUCTION SITE/FARMLAND - DAY

Curtis and Dewart attach a drill bit to the rig.

Curtis steadies the large metal piece as Dewart ratchets it

down.

Curtis steps back from the arm of the drill. Dewart taps the

wrench on two bolts to make sure they are secure.

A LOUD BOOM RATTLES. THUNDER.

Curtis flinches at the sound.

Curtis turns around and checks the sky. It's clear blue.

Not a cloud in sight.

BOOM. ANOTHER THUNDER STRIKE.

Curtis doesn't move. He watches Dewart walk to the controls

of the drilling rig.

MORE THUNDER. ROLLING NOW.

Curtis steps back from the rig and checks the horizons.

Nothing. It's a beautiful day.

Dewart looks down at him. Curtis' face is pale, scared.

Curtis looks at him. Not sure what to say. Curtis turns and

walks to his truck.

BY CURTIS' TRUCK,

Curtis stops and rests his hands on the bed of the truck.

Another THUNDER STRIKE makes him flinch.

Curtis VOMITS next to the back tire.

He quickly stands, wiping his mouth. He checks over his

shoulders to see if anyone has seen him.

I/E. CURTIS' TRUCK/RURAL HIGHWAY - MOVING - DAY

Curtis studies his face in the rearview mirror as he sails

down the rural highway.

He rubs his eyes with the back of his hand and looks in the

side mirror. The horizon is still clear.

Curtis begins to hyperventilate. Short breaths accompanied

by cold sweat. Sucking air. He can't breath. He panics.

The truck tires slide on the gravel shoulder as he abruptly

slams on the brakes and steers off the highway.

Dust settles outside as Curtis begins to get his breathing

under control. He rests his head on the steering wheel and

shuts his eyes tight.

Everything quiets down. His breathing. The road. No more

thunder.

Curtis looks out his passenger window.

His truck has stopped in front of a Tractor Trailer Depot. A

rusted shipping container with giant white letters painted on

it reads, "CONTAINERS FOR SALE".

Curtis stares at this. He climbs out of the truck.

EXT. TRAILER DEPOT - CONTINUOUS

Curtis walks around his truck to get a better look at the

depot. The dirt lot is piled high with containers.

He studies the "FOR SALE" sign, then a smaller sign next to

it that lists available sizes.

Curtis turns back to his truck and rubs his face, still

shaking things off. He looks up at the sky. Clear and blue.

A thought comes to him. He checks his watch.

I/E. CURTIS' TRUCK/INTERSTATE - DAY

Curtis drives down a divided four-lane interstate.

EXT. PLEASANT GROVE APARTMENTS - DAY

Curtis' truck pulls into the parking lot of the Pleasant

Grove Apartments. It's a well manicured, new construction

facility. The words "AN ASSISTED LIVING COMMUNITY" are

written under the apartment name on the sign out front.

INT. ASSISTED LIVING APARTMENT/HALLWAY - DAY

Curtis stands by the door for apartment 212 in an interior

carpeted hallway. He knocks.

A passing ATTENDANT guides an elderly WOMAN down the hallway.

Curtis nods to them.

The door opens. SARAH(61), a plainly dressed woman much too

young to live in a nursing home, looks surprised.

Her eyes light up and she wraps her arms around Curtis.

She leads him inside.

INT. SARAH'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

The apartment is small, but nicely kept. Not much furniture

or personal trappings. Framed family photos mostly.

He fills his glass at the sink. Takes a sip.

Curtis enters the living area as Sarah stops in the

kitchenette.

INT. SARAH'S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

Sarah runs her fingers around the bent edges of a small photo

of Hannah.

Curtis drops his head. He looks uncomfortable.

She looks at him. Totally open.

She has to think about it.

Curtis nods.

Sarah settles in her chair, understanding the question.

Sarah is remembering. Her face draws tight, frustrated.

Sarah looks up and smiles. Her focus shifts back to her son.

Sarah looks back down to Hannah's photo.

EXT. GAS STATION - LATE AFTERNOON

The relatively new gas station sits just off the interstate.

Curtis stands at the pump filling up his truck.

He watches the numbers next to the dollar sign roll higher.

He looks back at the busy freeway. Cars passing.

The pump stops. The final amount reads, "$68.79". He hangs

the hose back onto the pump and pulls a cell phone from his

pocket. He dials and waits.

Curtis, phone still at his ear, turns and watches the

horizon. The sun hangs low in the sky. A reddish haze.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Curtis steps quietly into the bedroom. The lights are on,

but Samantha has fallen asleep on top of the made bed.

He empties his pockets on the dresser and Samantha wakes up.

Samantha sits up in the bed.

Samantha lays back down, tucking herself under the covers.

Curtis finishes emptying his pockets.

INT. HANNAH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Hannah sleeps soundly in her bed. Curtis stands at the door

watching her. He walks over and takes a seat on the edge of

the bed. He listens to her breath.

EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - NIGHT

The backyard is almost pitch black. Curtis stands in front

of the storm shelter doors holding out the Coleman Lantern.

He surveys the backyard with it. The trash pile has been

removed leaving the yard more open.

Curtis begins to count steps out from the left edge of the

shelter doors. He counts to himself, three feet per stride.

He begins to outline a rectangle.

INT. DEN - NIGHT

The house is quiet and the den is lit by a single lamp.

Curtis sits alone on the couch, hunched over the coffee

table. He writes on a yellow legal pad. It's a list with

the heading, "REMODEL". It reads:

-Shipping Container, $1,800

-PVC, $475

-Plumbing and waste, $1,650

-Bobcat, $1,750

-Jackhammer with pneumatics, $800

-Sealant, $150

-Dirt, -$250

At the bottom of the list, Curtis writes the figure, "$7,500"

and circles it.

He studies the number, then begins drawing a rectangular

diagram below it.

INT. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OFFICE - DAY

Curtis blows into a Styrofoam cup and stares through the

blinds of an office window. Outside, a flag snaps at the top

of a pole next to the FIRST NATIONAL BANK sign.

He looks down at a NEWSPAPER laid out on an end table next to

him. He flips it over and studies the ads on the back. A

big one in the corner catches his eye.

It reads, "CUYAHOGA GUN AND KNIFE SHOW!" The ad lists items

for sell/trade: ...Tactical Gear, Gas Masks, Batons...

Curtis focuses in on the words "Gas Masks" and tears the ad

out. JOHN MYERS(34) enters with a set of papers in his hand.

Curtis quickly tucks the ad into his back pocket.

Myers takes a seat in one of two chairs in front of his desk

and looks over the papers. He takes a pen out of his pocket

as Curtis sits down next to him.

Myers nods, but he carries a look of concern. He confides.

Myers sits back, drawing the pen to his lips and tapping it.

Myers nods, then leans forward and clicks the pen.

EXT. FIRST NATIONAL BANK - DAY

Curtis opens the door to his truck which is parked in the

bank's lot. He unbuttons his starched white shirt and places

it on the truck seat.

He pulls out a dirty blue work shirt and begins buttoning it.

EXT. PUMP STATION CONSTRUCTION SITE/FARMLAND - DAY

Dewart sits at the controls of the drilling rig. He sees

Curtis approaching through the construction site. Curtis

waves two fingers at him. Dewart shuts down the drill.

Dewart hops down and the two approach the drill site. Dewart

seems sullen.

EXT. PUMP STATION CONSTRUCTION SITE/FARMLAND - LATER

Curtis and Dewart sit on the drilling rig eating lunch.

Dewart eyes him, unsure.

Dewart stares off into the distance. He notices Curtis

looking at him, waiting for an answer.

EXT. TRAILER DEPOT - LATE AFTERNOON

Curtis stands and talks with a MAN in the middle of the

Tractor Trailer Depot just off the highway. The Man points

to a row of shipping containers and uses his hands to mimic

how one would be lowered.

They shake hands and Curtis walks away.

EXT. COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER - DAY

The Community Health Center is a one-level, aged brick

building.

INT. COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER/LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

Curtis sits in the lobby filling out a clipboard full of

forms and questionnaires. Light traffic flows in and out.

He flips a page over. The section heading reads, "Family

Medical History". Curtis begins to write.

INT. COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER/HALLWAY - LATER

Curtis references a slip of paper as he looks for a room

number in a long, linoleum tiled hallway; a book and note pad

tucked under his arm.

He finds the correct door ajar and knocks.

INT. KENDRA'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

KENDRA(42), a black woman with short hair, sits behind a

public issue desk in a public issue office. A poster about

flu shots hangs on the wall. There is no personal decor.

She half stands and offers a hand.

Curtis shakes and they sit. Kendra opens a manila folder.

Curtis slides the yellow legal pad out of the book he

brought. It's the library book on Mental Illness.

Kendra stares at him.

Curtis begins to gather his things.

Curtis hesitates.

Curtis settles in his seat. Sets his book on the floor.

Kendra nods, a pleasant look on her face.

Curtis studies her face, bites at the inside of his cheek.

INT. SPECIAL EDUCATION CLASSROOM - NIGHT

The class has finished. PARENTS and KIDS trickle out.

Samantha stands off to the side speaking with the Teacher.

As Samantha talks to the Teacher, Curtis looks over

flashcards with Hannah. He signs "SUNSHINE", a circle in the

sky with the hand then coming down, fingers spread.

I/E. SAMANTHA'S CAR/INTERSTATE - NIGHT

Curtis drives while Samantha and Hannah sleep in the back.

Surrounding farmland drops quickly into darkness joining a

purple sky in the distance. Through the passenger window, a

streak of lightning breaks across the horizon. Then another.

Curtis, seeing this, repositions to get a better look through

the window. It's horizontal lightning that appears to leap

from cloud to cloud. Well defined bolts that strobe the

night sky silhouetting towering thunderheads.

Curtis looks back to Samantha and Hannah, still asleep.

He pulls the car over to the shoulder of the interstate and

continues watching. He climbs out.

ON THE SHOULDER OF THE INTERSTATE,

Cars rush by as Curtis gently closes the car door. Keeping

his eyes on the lightning storm, he walks to the shoulder.

It's a fantastic display of light. Hurried and intense. A

BOLT of lightning reaches down to the ground. Sparks pop off

the earth in the distance. Another BOLT streaks down,

getting closer.

Curtis sees the traffic continuing to pass by at full speed.

Curtis walks to the back window of the car and sees Samantha

sleeping inside. He reaches out to knock but stops himself.

He turns back to the lightning and watches.

INT. DELTA AGRI-PRO MAIN OFFICE - DAY

The giant rolling door curls up in the Delta Agri-Pro

warehouse. Sunlight bounces off the finished concrete.

Curtis pulls the chain for the door as Dewart slams the tow

latch down on the back of a DUMP TRUCK.

I/E. FLEA MARKET/LAFORCHE HOME - SERIES OF IMAGES - DAY

-The Dump Truck and Tow Trailer sit parked on the street in

front of Curtis' house. Dewart stands at the back of the

trailer with his hand on the ramp lever as Curtis reverses a

BACKHOE onto the street.

-Samantha works her booth at the flea market. Hannah neatly

organizes a collection of colored beads on the floor.

-A 20 foot rectangle has been outlined in bright orange paint

next to the storm shelter in Curtis' backyard. Other colored

markings denote gas and water lines. The bucket on the

Backhoe digs into the center of the dotted rectangle.

-Dewart maneuvers the Backhoe's bucket and drops a load of

earth into the bed of the Dump Truck. Red, the dog, barks at

the loud machinery from his pen.

-Curtis uses a smaller trench digging machine on the backside

of the yard, radiating out from the main dig site. He

notices a NEIGHBOR watching him from they yard next door.

-Samantha tallies cash from the tackle box she uses as a

register. Hannah counts out the change.

-Dewart assembles a series of PVC pipe next to the trenches

Curtis dug.

-Curtis, work goggles on, stands in a head deep hole holding

a pneumatic jack hammer up to the exposed exterior wall of

the storm shelter. He begins hammering.

EXT. LAFORCHE HOME - LATE AFTERNOON

Samantha's car pulls up and parks on the opposite side of the

street from their house. She gets out, puzzled by the

Backhoe and Trailer parked in front of her house.

Huge light brown tracks of dirt stripe the concrete driveway.

Leading Hannah by the hand, Samantha follows the tracks to

the backyard.

IN THE BACKYARD,

Samantha stops, mouth agape, stunned by what she sees.

A 20 foot by 8 foot wide hole that is 10 feet deep sits in

the middle of her yard. Smaller trenches lead out from it.

Dewart leans against the propane tank in the back corner of

the yard. He digs dirt from underneath his fingernails with

a pocket knife. Seeing Samantha, he waves a hand.

Curtis' head appears from the hole. He stops when he sees

Samantha. They stare at one another. He can see her

surprise. He continues up the ladder and walks over to her.

Dewart watches from the back of the yard.

Samantha takes Hannah into the house without saying a word.

She continues into the house. Curtis turns, frustrated.

Dewart takes this in, then goes back to his nails.

INT. LAFORCHE HOME - NIGHT

Hannah watches television in the den by herself.

IN THE BEDROOM,

Samantha sits on the edge of the bed. Curtis stands a few

paces back. His hands dug into the back of his dusty jeans.

Samantha is stunned. She stands and gets in his face.

Curtis can't look at her. He tries to find words but fails.

Samantha stares at his face, searching for an answer. She's

on the verge of tears.

Curtis walks out of the room. Samantha can't hold back,

tears run down her face.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Curtis stares at himself in the mirror. He opens the bottle

of prescription pills and shakes out two. Looks at them.

Shakes out another three. He pops the pills in his mouth and

drinks from the faucet.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

It's dark and quiet in the house. Samantha sleeps on her

side, her back to Curtis.

Her head is jostled. More. The bed begins to vibrate. Her

eyes open. She turns over to see Curtis.

He's having a SEIZURE.

Samantha reaches for him. Eyes closed, his body convulses

violently. Samantha quickly turns on a bedside lamp.

She touches his arms. A small amount of BLOOD begins to

trickle from both sides of his mouth.

Samantha jumps off the bed and grabs a cordless phone on the

dresser. She dials, watching her husband continue to shake.

Samantha goes over to him. Holding her hands out, cautious

to touch him.

Samantha puts the phone receiver down on the nightstand. The

Operator's VOICE still coming through. She touches his arm.

Suddenly, the seizures stop. Curtis' body is still.

Samantha freezes.

His eyes open and he thrashes up in bed. Samantha jumps,

tripping and stumbling backward.

Curtis sucks short breaths into his lungs. His head darts

back and forth, eyes wild. He sees Samantha staring up at

him from the floor. He begins to calm down.

Curtis touches his mouth. Sees the blood there.

Samantha stands up and goes over to him. She sits on the

edge of the bed and touches his arm. She's scared.

Curtis slowly nods.

Curtis sees the phone on the nightstand and grabs it.

Curtis clicks off the phone.

Curtis wraps his arms around her. He holds her tight. The

SOUND of ambulance sirens approach from the distance.

Samantha speaks, her voice trembling.

EXT. LAFORCHE HOME - NIGHT

The ambulance lights splash across the house. Curtis escorts

TWO EMTs down the front walk. He favors his left leg,

walking with a slight limp.

Curtis shakes their hands. He turns to walk back in the

house and notices NEIGHBORS watching from their porches.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Curtis turns up a bottle of peroxide and swishes it in his

mouth. It burns. He spits into the kitchen sink.

Samantha sits at the table watching him. Concerned, scared.

She holds a balled up tissue in her hand. Curtis takes a

seat across the table. She waits for him to say something.

Samantha listens with a furrowed brow.

Curtis zones out for a moment. Samantha says nothing.

Samantha's eyes are red. Her nose. She nods slightly and

dabs the tissue at the corner of her eye.

This makes Samantha look up.

The room is quiet. Samantha watches her husband.

INT. OTOLARYNGOLOGIST'S CLINIC/CT SCAN ROOM - DAY

Hannah lies flat as the sled moves her through the oval CT

scanner. A red, lighted crosshair passes over her face.

INT. OTOLARYNGOLOGIST'S CLINIC/OFFICE - DAY

Samantha has Hannah on her lap. She and Curtis listen

intently to an ATTENDANT who sits next to them with a file.

EXT. PUMP STATION CONSTRUCTION SITE/FARMLAND - DAY

Curtis stands with Russell over the hood of a pick-up truck.

They look over a roll of ground water charts.

Russell talks and points to the map, but Curtis' attention is

focused elsewhere. He watches Dewart in the distance.

Dewart smiles and makes broad gestures with his arms. He's

telling a story to Dave, who laughs hard.

His attention snaps back.

Russell rolls up the charts. They walk toward the work site,

toward Dewart.

INT. DELTA AGRI-PRO MAIN OFFICE/JIM'S OFFICE - DAY

Jim fills out paperwork at his desk. There is a KNOCK.

Curtis walks inside. He stands in front of the desk.

Jim sets his pen down and leans back.

Jim nods.

Curtis turns to leave the office.

Curtis shows himself out.

EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - EVENING

The sun has just set and a purple hue hangs over everything.

Curtis stands in the very back of the yard and watches a MAN

guide a long, flatbed trailer up the driveway. An 18 foot

metal SHIPPING CONTAINER rides on the back.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Nat and Samantha sit at the kitchen table going over a list

of food in a note pad.

Nat gets up to refill her drink. She looks out the back door

and surveys the construction zone. A FORKLIFT lowers the

Shipping Container into the giant hole in the backyard. Nat

shakes her head.

Nat brings her drink back to the table and sits. Samantha

doesn't look up from her pad.

Nat puts her hand on Samantha's. Samantha moves it.

Nat smiles sympathetically.

INT. ARMY NAVY STORE - DAY

Curtis meanders inside. He sees police tactical and survival

gear behind the counter. Chief among them is a collection of

gas masks hanging on the rear partition.

The OWNER of the store removes a mask and hands it to him.

Curtis fiddles with the mask.

Curtis frowns at the price.

Curtis nods. The perusing Shopper listens in.

EXT. ARMY NAVY PARKING LOT - DAY

Curtis stands at the driver's door of his pick-up. The box

sits on the seat in front of him. He opens it and removes

one of the gas masks.

He stares into its vacant plastic eyes. He drops the mask

back into the box and shakes his head. Sighs, frustrated

with it all.

He checks over his shoulder, scans the parking lot.

EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - LATER

Curtis stands on top of the shipping container that rests in

the hole roughly a foot below the yard. Wearing tinted

goggles, he cuts a circular hole in the top of the container

with a small blowtorch.

The sparks stop and Curtis raises the goggles to inspect his

work. He kicks at the weld with the heel of his boot and the

metal falls into the container.

He sets down the torch and removes a roof turbine vent from a

cardboard box and holds it up next to the newly cut hole.

Curtis smiles to himself. He turns to find KYLE(42) standing

at the edge of the hole. His hands are tucked into the back

of his jeans and he's sizing up the work.

Curtis steps off the roof of the shipping container onto

ground level. He holds out a hand and Kyle shakes it, never

taking his eyes off the unfinished shelter.

Kyle notices the PVC piping running in the trenches.

Curtis shrugs. Kyle sees his reluctance.

Kyle is staring him down. Curtis just looks at the shelter.

There's a long silence shared between them.

Curtis climbs back onto the shipping container and continues

installing the roof vent.

Curtis doesn't answer.

Curtis keeps his head down, scolded. Kyle relents.

There's an awkward moment as Curtis works with his back to

Kyle.

Curtis turns and looks up at him. Shakes his head.

Kyle nods.

Kyle looks at him for a moment. He turns and walks toward

the driveway.

Kyle turns back. Curtis climbs onto the yard and walks over

to him.

Kyle looks at him.

EXT. LAFORCHE HOME/DRIVEWAY - DAY

Curtis slaps down the tailgate to Kyle's truck, which is

parked in the driveway. Red, tail wagging, hops up into the

bed. Curtis closes the tailgate and sets a leash and two

bowls into the back of the truck.

Curtis rubs Red behind the ears.

Kyle stands at the passenger door to the truck.

Kyle walks around the truck to the driver's side.

Kyle stops. Curtis walks up and hugs him. Kyle slaps him on

the back.

Curtis nods. Kyle smiles, shaking his head.

Kyle climbs into the truck and cranks it. Curtis steps back

as he pulls away. Red looks back from the bed of the truck.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Hannah, fresh from the tub, stands to let Curtis rub her wet

head with a towel. He finishes and stands.

Hannah looks up at him. Curtis signs his hand like a pillow

then touches his watch. They move out of the bathroom.

INT. LAFORCHE HOME/BEDROOM - MORNING

Curtis sits on the edge of his bed staring at the window in

their room. He's already dressed for work.

He watches as the thick, dark rain hits the window and

streaks. He has a curious look on his face.

MOVING, down the hall.

MOVING, past the den.

MOVING, into the kitchen.

Curtis stops at the entry to the kitchen. Samantha, wearing

a robe, stands with her back to him. She's cooking something

at the stove.

Curtis notices the back door standing open. HARD RAIN slants

down outside. He looks down at the tile floor.

WET FOOTPRINTS track inside.

They lead to where Samantha is standing. She turns to him.

She's pale with a vacant look on her face. Her hair is

soaking wet.

Curtis looks at her, concerned. She stares back,

emotionless. She slowly looks down at the counter next to

her. A kitchen knife rests there.

Curtis looks at the knife. They look at one another again.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Curtis sits at the breakfast table across from Hannah. He

looks over at Samantha. She cooks, her back to him. Hannah

climbs out of her chair and goes to look out the back door.

Samantha turns and dishes eggs onto Curtis' plate.

She touches his hand. Curtis FLINCHES.

Their eyes meet. He wants to take it back, and she can see

that. It begins to sink in for her.

Hannah vocalizes something behind them.

Samantha looks at her husband, shakes her head in disbelief.

Hannah makes another sound, pounds on the back door.

Samantha turns and sees a MAN standing in their backyard.

She flinches.

Curtis stands to see out the back door.

EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS

Jim, Curtis' boss, stands with his hands on his hips looking

down at the planted shipping container. Curtis approaches.

Curtis nods. Accepts it.

Jim turns and walks out of the backyard.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Samantha clears the table. Hannah sits, watching her father

walk in. Curtis stops just inside the door, closes it.

Samantha continues clearing the dishes to the sink. She

doesn't look up.

Samantha slams the plates into the sink. They break. She

holds her head back and stares at the ceiling.

She walks over to Curtis...

...and SLAPS him across the face.

Hannah begins to cry.

Samantha turns and collects Hannah from the table. She grabs

her things and walks out of the house.

Curtis stands alone in the kitchen.

INT. AR COUNTY COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER/HALLWAY - DAY

Curtis walks down the hallway to Kendra's office. The door

ajar, he knocks and enters.

INT. KENDRA'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Curtis finds ANDY(42), a man in khakis and a button up,

sitting behind the desk.

Andy rises from his chair.

Curtis looks at the man. He's kind of mincing.

Curtis takes a seat.

Curtis looks at the man for a moment, then stands and walks

out of the room.

EXT. LAFORCHE HOME/DRIVEWAY - DAY

Curtis' truck is parked in the driveway with the hood up and

the engine running.

Curtis stands over the vibrating engine, studying it. He

looks at the belts. He watches them move.

INT. STORM SHELTER - DAY

Curtis hefts a porcelain toilet down the steps of the

shelter. A dull light glows through the new entryway that's

been knocked out through the back left wall.

Curtis goes through it.

IN THE SHIPPING CONTAINER SECTION,

Curtis sets the toilet on the floor. He picks up the camping

lantern and holds it up to the space.

The lack of light makes it feel more cavernous than it is.

Two cots have been brought down as well as an assortment of

supplies. Canned food, a small gas burner.

Curtis hangs the lantern onto a hook on the wall and goes

about connecting the toilet to a pipe sticking out of the

back corner.

INT. LAFORCHE HOME - DAY

Samantha walks inside followed by Hannah and a WOMAN from the

flea market.

Samantha hands over the plastic bag.

Samantha takes three twenties from her.

Samantha closes the door.

IN THE KITCHEN,

Samantha takes the tin decorated with ocean creatures down

from the fridge. She removes the envelope with the word

"BEACH" written on it and takes out a stack of bills.

She folds the bills over and stuffs them into her purse

before placing the empty envelope back in the tin.

She looks out back and sees Curtis sitting with Hannah.

OUTSIDE,

The shipping container has been covered over with dirt. Two

rotating vents spin at either end of the brown mound. Curtis

sits on the freshly packed dirt signing with Hannah.

He signs something that makes her laugh. Hannah smacks a

muddy clump between her hands. Curtis touches her nose,

leaving a dirt smudge. Hannah laughs. She touches his face,

smudging it.

IN THE KITCHEN,

Samantha watches through the back door.

INT. HANNAH'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Samantha tucks Hannah into bed. She kisses her on the head

and turns out the bedside lamp. Samantha leaves the room.

EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - EVENING

Samantha steps out of the house. She walks over to Curtis,

who is standing on a grassy section of the yard over an

assortment of auto parts. They don't speak for a moment.

Samantha almost smiles. Curtis keeps his eyes on the parts.

Samantha looks at his hands. They hang by his sides.

Curtis nods.

He holds open his hand to her. She takes it.

Curtis nods. Samantha let's go of his hand and walks back to

the house. Curtis goes back to studying the auto parts.

INT. LIONS CLUB LODGE - NIGHT

The inside of the club is a musty banquet hall with wood

panelled walls and a drop tile ceiling. The place is packed.

Rows of folding tables fill the center of the room. A long

LINE has formed along the side wall that wraps to a serving

station at the back. Heated metal bins filled with fried

oysters and french fries.

Curtis gets in line with his family.

AT THE SERVING TABLE,

Curtis holds two paper plates.

Curtis uses tongs to grab pieces of fried oyster. Looking

up, he can see back through the kitchen to an open door

outside. Dewart stands there over a butane fired frying pot.

He wears an apron and stares at Curtis.

Curtis moves down the line.

INT. LIONS CLUB LODGE - LATER

Lewis sits with Cammie and their baby. He laughs and talks

with another man. From a different table, Russell leans over

to eye Curtis.

Curtis sits at a table with his family. He loads Hannah's

plate up with ketchup.

A tap on his shoulder. Curtis turns to find Dewart standing

over him.

Dewart taps him on the shoulder again.

Curtis stands and Dewart takes a step back. The general

noise of the place starts to quiet down as people take

notice. A few stand.

Dewart shoves him in the chest.

Curtis places a hand on Dewart's chest.

Dewart punches Curtis in the face. It stings.

Samantha gathers Hannah and moves back. Dewart shoves Curtis

across the table. Oysters and bottles go everywhere. The

entire room is on its feet watching.

Curtis slips getting up. Dewart walks around the table,

heading for him.

Curtis stands and kicks Dewart in the knee. It buckles back

and he's on the floor. He cries out and grabs the twisted

joint. He's done.

Curtis paces over him, covered in ketchup and soda. He

shouts down at him.

He wipes at his face. Sees all of the people staring at him.

Addresses them.

Curtis TURNS OVER A TABLE. He points to the gawking crowd.

Hannah watches. THE SOUND MUTED. She looks on as Curtis

paces, pointing and yelling, red faced at the crowd.

Curtis backs off.

Curtis looks down at Dewart.

He turns to see Hannah. She's tucked under her Mother's leg

crying. This hits him hard. He stops. Looking at Samantha,

his eyes fill with tears.

Samantha, leading Hannah by the hand, walks to Curtis. He

stares at her, on the verge of breaking down.

She takes her hand and gently pulls his head down to her

shoulder. Without another look toward the crowd, Samantha

leads her family out of the dining hall.

EXT. LAFORCHE HOME - DAY

Hannah stands on a toolbox and rests her elbows on the side

of Curtis' truck. The hood is open. She watches her father

fiddle with re-installing the alternator. His fingers

covered in grease.

Hannah steps down from the toolbox and walks into the front

yard. Curtis pauses, hearing a high-pitched, warbling SOUND

in the distance. He notices Hannah is gone.

He pulls his head out from the hood and sees Hannah standing

on the curb. She looks down the street. He runs down his

driveway, wiping his hands on a rag and watching the horizon.

A FLOCK OF BIRDS, flying in intricate geometric patterns,

swarm above the house at the end of the street. They twist

and bend into speckled black shapes.

Hannah, watching, walks into the street. Curtis catches her

by the hand. He turns away from the birds to see a STORM

CELL building on the opposite horizon. He scoops Hannah into

his arms, stepping back from it.

The SOUND of the birds grows louder. Curtis pivots to find

the mass of birds barreling down the street toward him. He

turns away as the wall of birds crash past him. The force so

powerful it knocks him backward.

He covers Hannah's head, dodging the onslaught of wind and

wings. The Flock passes. Curtis stands, his face cut and

scraped. Hannah cries, clinging to his chest.

SMASH!

The windshield of a car parked next to him SHATTERS. Curtis

looks at the broken glass. A dead bird, it's neck broken,

rests crumpled on the hood.

SMACK!

Another bird crashes into the asphalt just in front of him.

Then another. Curtis looks up. The Flock of birds are

circling overhead and diving down at him.

More birds crashing to the ground. Curtis covers his head.

The neighborhood's tornado SIRENS begin to sound.

Curtis rushes Hannah toward his front door as dozens of birds

plummet from the sky. The sirens BLARING.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Curtis wakes to Samantha shaking him by the shoulders. She's

nearly on top of him in the bed.

TORNADO SIRENS continue to scream throughout the

neighborhood.

Curtis looks to the window. Rain and hail are battering the

house. He jumps to his feet and grabs Samantha by the arm.

They rush out of the room.

INT. HANNAH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Curtis bursts into the room. Hannah is standing at the

window looking out. Curtis scoops her up, scaring her. She

begins to cry as they run from the room.

EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - NIGHT

Wind blows fiercely as pellets of hail bounce off the ground.

Rain cuts at a sharp angle. The Tornado Sirens continue.

Curtis, Hannah in his arms and Samantha close behind, exits

the back of the house and heads to the storm shelter. He

passes Hannah to Samantha and fumbles with the padlock keys.

At the doors to the shelter, Samantha holds her robe up to

shield Hannah from the hail. Curtis gets the lock and opens

the door. They go inside.

INT. STORM SHELTER - CONTINUOUS

Curtis slams the doors behind them. It's pitch black until

he gets to the switch on the lantern. The room fills with

the orange glow as Curtis snaps the padlock through the door

handles.

Curtis leads them through the entry to the larger section of

the shelter. Samantha takes Hannah and sits with her on one

of the cots. She's signing to her, trying to calm her down.

Curtis goes to a trunk in the corner and begins rooting

through it. He removes two gas masks and an oxygen mask

connected to a small tank.

He goes over and kneels in front of Hannah. He tries

slipping the oxygen mask over her face. Samantha grabs his

wrist.

Curtis hands Samantha a gas mask.

He looks to Hannah and places an oxygen mask over her face..

He signs to her.

Curtis eases on the knob at the top of the tank.

He climbs onto the cot and puts his arm around them. He

slips on his gas mask.

Samantha is hesitant. She looks at her husband in the mask

and leans back against the side of the container. Hannah

looks up at her. She touches her mother's mask.

Samantha slips on the gas mask.

The camping lantern on the floor casts long shadows up. The

faint boom of thunder rolls softly outside.

The family sits huddled together on the cot, wearing their

masks.

INT. STORM SHELTER - LATER

A CRACK of thunder rattles the shelter. Curtis snaps awake,

still wearing his gas mask.

Samantha has climbed on the other cot and is asleep. Hannah

sleeps under Curtis' arm. He gently lays her down on the cot

and stands to stretch.

He walks into the original section of the shelter and grabs a

small flashlight off the metal shelving. He clicks it on and

moves over to the concrete steps.

He takes a seat and listens. He places his hand onto the

metal door. A BOOM of thunder.

He can hear the rain and wind blowing outside.

INT. STORM SHELTER - LATER

Samantha rubs Curtis' shoulder, gently waking him.

Curtis' head moves. He sees that Samantha and Hannah have

removed their masks.

Curtis hesitates.

Curtis slips the mask off his face. Worried, he takes a

breath.

Curtis doesn't move. He looks at them.

Curtis slowly gets to his feet. He sees the dark entryway to

the original section of the shelter. Taking the lantern, he

walks to it.

Samantha and Hannah follow.

Curtis stops just inside. He holds the lantern up,

illuminating the padlocked metal doors.

He looks back at his family, then climbs the steps. He

places his hand on the door. He flinches.

Samantha stares at him. The room is silent.

He takes Samantha's wrist and guides her to the doors. He

watches her face as she places a hand against the metal. She

looks at him, her eyes getting red, and shakes her head "no".

Curtis kneels in front of Hannah and mimics the signs from

earlier.

He flinches again. Looks to the ceiling

Hannah walks to her mother. Samantha holds onto her.

Curtis steps back from them. They watch him, their backs to

the doors. He flinches and covers his mouth.

Samantha walks over to him.

Curtis is on the verge of tears.

He slowly reaches into his jeans pocket. He removes the

keys. He holds them out to Samantha.

Samantha looks at the keys, then at Curtis. Tears shake from

his trembling face.

He looks at Hannah, then Samantha. Curtis steadies himself,

trying to control his flinching. He wipes his face with the

back of his hands and takes a deep breath.

Curtis walks toward the doors. On the steps, he reaches up

to the padlock. The keys shake in his fingers. He turns to

Samantha.

Samantha picks Hannah up in her arms and Curtis watches them

retreat to the rear wall.

He goes back to the lock. He inserts the key. The padlock

pops open. Curtis removes it. He looks back at Samantha,

then flings open the doors.

SUNLIGHT.

It's blinding. Curtis holds his hand up to cover his eyes.

He stares up at a crystal blue sky. Samantha watches as

Curtis steps out of the shelter.

EXT. LAFORCHE BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS

Curtis rises through the storm shelter's entryway. Out of

the corner of his eye he catches,

A MAN PASSING BY.

Curtis is startled. He turns to see a CREW of MEN from the

power company hoisting a ladder onto the pole at the corner

of the house. A power line dangles overhead.

He turns to see NEIGHBORS in their yards clearing debris.

Leaves and branches clutter the ground. The aftermath of a

storm.

Samantha steps out of the shelter holding Hannah. She

surveys the damage.

She walks over to Curtis and hugs him. He kisses Samantha on

the head. Curtis looks up at the sky.

INT. PSYCHIATRIST OFFICE - DAY

Curtis sits with Samantha in the plush office of a

PSYCHIATRIST(56). Curtis rubs his hand over the soft leather

upholstery on the couch.

Curtis looks up for the first time.

Curtis processes this. Samantha takes his hand.

EXT. BEACH/CONDO - DAY

Curtis scoops handfuls of sand out of a foot deep hole on the

beach. He slops the wet mixture into a castle shaped bucket,

his back to the shoreline of gentle, breaking waves.

Hannah sits on her knees in front of Curtis sprinkling dry

sand over castle shaped mounds already formed.

INT. CONDO - DAY

Samantha drops four hotdogs into a boiling pot of water and

stirs a bubbling pot of canned chili.

The beach condo is small, but brightly furnished.

EXT. CONDO/BEACH - DAY

The wooden deck hangs off the back of the beach condo. A

picnic table is set with plastic place mats and forks. WIND

lifts the corner of a stack of napkins. The wind blows

harder, fanning the napkins off the table.

ON THE BEACH,

Curtis, still working in the sand, puts a top on the sand

castle.

Curtis smooths out the sand in the castle shaped bucket and

turns it over to top off their sand mound. He hands the

bucket over for Hannah to refill.

The SOUND of the waves behind them has STOPPED. They don't

notice.

Curtis takes two fingers and digs a small trench around the

sand castle.

Curtis looks up ready to sign the letters but sees Hannah

staring at the water. She looks at him and signs something

with her hands.

Curtis misses it. He shakes his head, "no", and Hannah signs

again, slowly: "S-T-O-R-M".

Curtis turns to the shoreline, getting to his feet.

He looks down at Hannah, who watches, mesmerized. Scared,

she looks to her father. He grabs her under the arms and

rests her on his hip. She buries her head into his chest.

AT THE CONDO,

A gust of wind greets Samantha as she walks out onto the deck

holding a plate of hotdogs and a bowl of chili. She stops,

seeing the horizon. Her mouth falls open.

She slowly sets the plate and bowl down on the table, her

mind racing. She looks down at Curtis in disbelief.

Curtis looks up to the Condo and makes eye contact. He

studies her face.

Samantha looks at her husband, trying to process it all. She

looks out at the horizon then back down to Curtis. Concern

on her face, she nods to him.

Curtis sees her nod.

Samantha's eyes, still locked on Curtis, soften, as if to

apologize. After a moment, she mouths to him, "I love you."

Curtis nods back to her.

She looks back up to the shoreline.

ON THE BEACH,

Curtis' feet kick up sand as he rushes back toward the condo.

AT THE CONDO,

Samantha hasn't moved from the porch. A light rain begins to

fall. Her hands grip the railing. She turns her left palm

up. Dark rain collects there.

ON THE HORIZON IN FRONT OF HER,

THE WATER HAS RECEDED INTO THE GULF SOME 100 YARDS. THE DARK

SANDY BOTTOM LOOKS ODD STRETCHED OUT SO FAR. A STORM CELL

SITS MASSED ON THE HORIZON. CHURNING BLACK CLOUDS FILLED

WITH LAYERS OF HORIZONTAL LIGHTNING.

Behind Samantha, Curtis appears in the open sliding door

clutching Hannah. The Storm Cell is reflected in the glass

next to him.

Samantha looks down at her palm. She rubs the thick, viscous

rain in her fingers. She looks back up at the storm.

On Samantha's face,

