A DRUM. Beating slow. And deep. Like a heart.

FADE IN:

EXT. THE GREAT PLAINS SOUTH DAKOTA - DAWN

Something is rising from the Black Hills. A sphere of light,

too red to be the sun. A sphere of contained fire, undulating

in crimson and ochre, and rising slowly, majestically, to

the pulse. To the DRUM. It is the sun. But it is a Paha Sapa

sunrise. A Black Hills sunrise. And it is spectacular.

The DRUM, pounds deeper, bigger, as the sun gets higher.

Stronger. Igniting a vast landscape of gentle slopes and

foothills; throwing shadows on the plains that look like, as

the Indians say, an old man dancing. The grass is golden.

And high. The wind moves through it, snakes through it.

Slowly.

BEGIN CREDITS.

Voices; a TRADITIONAL INDIAN SONG (Lakota), summoning Wakan

Tanka - The Great Mystery.

And now, rising up over one of the small land waves, a head

comes into view. Shoulders. A man, running in ghostly SLOW

MOTION, his long black hair trailing in the wind. The INDIAN

MAN wears only buckskin pants and a bone choker around his

neck.

Legs and arms churning, the man runs with antelope grace,

backlit by the sunrise, bounding toward us. Running... his

heart pounding. SONG RISING... DRUM POUNDING... FIVE MORE

VOICES in high-pitched tremolo join the song.

And then the runner soars, like an eagle from a bluff,

airborne, flying over a small dip, arms outstretched, and it

would be a wondrous thing if there were not a fine, crimson,

mist all around him and if slow motion was not suddenly

overtaken by LIVE SPEED, revealing the brutal force of gunfire

which has slammed the Indian into the air, throwing him.

Slamming him hard into the grass. And it is over as quickly

and violently as a deer shot dead.

LAKOTA SONG ends abruptly.

LONG SHOT - THE GREAT PLAINS

the sun burns like lava at the horizon. DRUM beats like a

heart. And Somewhere off in a distant cottonwood, an OWL.

Then Silence. Deep, disturbing stillness.

EXT. CAPITAL BELTWAY - WASHINGTON. D.C - DAY

ROCK N'ROLL shatters the silence.

Cars -- a multicolored metallic criss-cross reflecting off a

building made of mirrors -- races past an electronic billboard

that blinks in red skyhigh digital: PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE.

7:59. 73 degrees.

The D.C. Superhighway. And off behind it, in the distance,

Capital Hill holds imposing vigil, the massive cast iron

dome of The Capital, catching the sun. But everything is

soon smothered by a METRO BUS, hogging the far lane of the

Beltway, leaning on its HORN.

Good morning.

And the rock n'roll is everybody's radio, everybody's tempo.

CARBON MONOXIDE WAVE

shimmers across the beltway hugging then releasing a solitary

vehicle that we stay with... move with... A black Nissan 240

SX, hard-waxed.

INT. 240 SX - TRAVELING

Behind the wheel -- an intense young man with close-cropped

black hair, eyes hidden by sunglasses. Whatever he does for

a living, he does in a suit (not expensive but well-fit. But

we might also note that any extra suit cash has gone instead

into the silver-plated watch on his left wrist). Lean as a

rake, sallow in the cheeks, there is something insatiable

about him -- a hungry energy that won't let him go.

RAY LEVOI, late 20's, early 30's, pulls out of a threatening

traffic jam and races on the narrow right between thirty

cars and a cement girder.

EXT. T STREET - OUTSIDE WEST-CENTRAL

The black SX has jumped off an exit and has entered the light-

industrial section of Washington. It pulls up near a loading

dock behind an old gray building and several parked cars and

vans. Ray steps out, smooths his jacket, locks and SETS HIS

CAR ALARM.

Another young man -- chubby, clean-shaven; in a nicer suit

than Ray's -- steps out from a parked Miata, and approaches

Ray. CARL PODJWICK balances a coffee, a U.S.A. Today and a

black eel-skin briefcase.

They start walking briskly toward the loading dock.

They mount steps.

They stop at the door of a service elevator and Carl breathes.

Expanding his chest, exhaling. Ray adjusts Carl's tie for

him, his collar. He speaks quietly. Quickly.

Carl nods. Ray hesitates, adjusts his own collar and enters

the service elevator. Carl follows. Door closes.

BEGIN CREDITS END.

INT. GRAY BUILDING - FENCING OPERATION

Carl follows Ray into the big sparse room of unfinished

sheetrock walls. There is nothing in here but cardboard boxes,

and two people; a bearded HISPANIC MAN standing behind a

counter, writing on a clipboard. The other is a middle-aged

BLACK MAN in a purple silk shirt sitting in a chair with a

newspaper held open. He barely looks over the top of the

Wall Street Journal.

Ray walks up to the counter. Carl lingers, fidgeting. Ray

sets his briefcase on the counter and click-clicks it open.

The Hispanic fence man looks inside, and begins pulling out

stacks of treasury checks.

Ray gestures to Carl and he nervously sets his briefcase on

the counter, fumbles with the first latch. The second. He

flips it open.

The fence man casts his eyes down at a neat cache of Grade A

Treasury. A lot of it. Then his eyes rise to Carl.

The fence man pushes an intercom button and yells into a

speaker.

Carl's eyes flit to Ray. Ray's eyes flit to Carl.

Louis crushes his newspaper down and lifts a big Colt Python

from his lap just as --

A section of sheetrock kicks open and THREE FEDERAL OFFICERS

bust out, each clutching a handgun, SHOUTING inaudibly.

Carl startled, does an almost effeminate dip down to one

knee, but that knee is swept out from under him, slapping

him flat onto plywood where he is instantly frisked down by

the fence man who is wielding a 9 mm handgun. But the white

collar criminal is more stunned by the fact that --

Ray is walking across the floor with his hands in his pockets

over to the Mr. Coffee. He pours one, and adds some milk.

Turns and watches the bust while opening a packet of Sweet

n'Low.

Ray rests his weight against the coffee station, takes a

careful sip. Carl is yanked to his feet by the fence man and

he stands there, looking at Ray, baffled. Completely shocked.

Coffee in hand, Ray walks briskly toward the door.

Ray turns. Louis takes a few steps toward him, putting his

gun back in his waistband.

Ray stands frozen, holding the door knob, and digesting what

are apparently influential words.

Ray just stares for a moment. Then hurries out the door.

Carl, being arm-gripped by two agents and photographed like

a trout, gazes bewildered at the door.

CAMERA FLASHES at him, an agent on either side, striking a

natural pose.

EXT. J. EDGAR HOOVER BUILDING - ESTABLISHING - DAY

The huge, imposing, mausoleum-like Hoover building, bordered

by artificial turf, hemmed by cherry trees in blossom. Turning

out to be a nice day on Pennsylvania Avenue.

INT. FBI DIRECTOR'S CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

8x10 BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOS dealt like cards onto a table,

one on top of another.

1 -- an aerial shot of some wasteland.

2 -- a closer bird's eye of the same, what looks like a NASA

photo of Mars.

3 -- a vast expanse of the Great Plains.

ROBERT F. TULLY, Number-Two-in-Command, deals a fourth photo

onto the table. He is an understated, fatherly man, well-

manicured in cotton pencil-striped shirt, white-tab collar

and tie. The photos and maps and files a foot deep on the

huge table are neatly organized.

Seated, at the far end of the table, engrossed in the deep

spread of information, SA (Special Agent) FRANK COUTURE is

about to break the record for longest single ash on the end

of a cigarette and the smoke forces his eyes into tight,

concentrating, slits. "COOCH" as they call him in the Bureau

has seen thirty years in some rough "provinces". He has

survived the Hoover era and is a legend in the Sessions era

but survival has honed an edge. An edge with a touch of ironic

cop humor.

Ray enters, walks into a firm shake.

Ray sits nervously across from Cooch who looks up from the

photos and studies the younger man through reading glasses

and cigarette smoke, and he looks at him like he doesn't

know who the hell he is or why he's sitting there.

Cooch sticks his cigarette in his left hand, shakes with his

right.

The handshake is still locked. Cooch is still squinting at

the younger agent. Ray obviously knows something about Agent

Couture.

Tully leans back in his chair, crosses his legs casually.

Ray's enthusiasm suddenly deflates.

Ray looks completely baffled now, swinging a look from Cooch

to Tully.

Ray nods, looks from Tully to Cooch. What's going on here?

Tully straightens the edges of a bureau memorandum.

A beat. Ray lowers his eyes to the photos.

Ray looks up at Cooch. Another uneasy beat. Cooch lights a

cigarette as if lighting a cigarette was a science.

Ray sits before the files and photos, looking unsure. He has

come to garner a promotion but has just been sent to The

Graveyard. Or in the FBI argot, Indian Country.

Tully pivots his leather chair in a full circle and slaps an

assignment folder down in front of the young agent.

EXT. THE GREAT PLAINS - SOUTH DAKOTA - DAWN

The very landscape from opening image. Gentle waves of land,

rolling out to touch the Black Hills. The sun rises up out

of the distant silhouette like a waking God. HEARTBEAT DRUM.

Hypnotic.

And then a car blows by, throwing up gravel and agate and

gypsum. ZOOOOM! Right by us. Gone.

When a dense screen of red dust clears, an old, bent, metal

sign at roadside becomes visible. It reads, through punched

and rusted bullet holes: "Entering Bear Creek Indian

Reservation."

HEARTBEAT DRUM calls in the high-pitched, mournful voices of

LAKOTA SINGERS. The same haunting song.

INT. LE BARON - MOVING

Cooch is at the wheel. Ray, passenger. His lap is a desk for

several folders, and he works through them as they drive.

Both agents eat a sandwich as they travel.

Cooch opens a folder that sits between them, and taking his

eyes off the road for a dangerous five seconds, locates some

photos, and hands them to Ray. Ray's expression tells us

they are not pretty.

Ray considers this as he looks out at the unfamiliar terrain

while on the RADIO, a D.J. speaks in LAKOTA LANGUAGE. Ray...

back at Cooch, studying his face.

Ray smiles, sets the AC on high.

Cooch throws a quick look Ray's way. And a smile. He

appreciates the sting of a right off a left.

Ray has finished his sandwich. He wipes his hands on a

kerchief while taking in the sight of chalky buttes cramming

roadside.

Cooch looks at Ray, amused. He likes this guy. And then he

notices a look of growing consternation on his partner's

face.

RAY'S POV - MOVING

as they drive through the first settlement, a little, broken

and scattered community, littered with wrecked cars on blocks,

and overpopulated with hungry dogs. HEARTBEAT DRUM softly

under.

SIX INDIAN CHILDREN with dirty but beautiful faces and long

blue black hair run alongside the car, curious. One of them

YELLS SOMETHING we don't understand.

PAST the trading post -- a white man's store -- where SIX

OGLALA SIOUX -- four men, two women sit like wax figures,

only their eyes moving to light on the freshly waxed

government car.

A little house has a tipi erected beside it. And a satellite

dish. The house beside that one has been half chopped away

to feed the wood stove.

Poverty.

EXT. BEAR CREEK COMMUNITY - RESERVATION - DAY

The federal car drives out of the community and further into

vast bluffs and strange rock formations where it is swallowed,

leaving the ramshackle village in dust.

A lone dog -- all its ribs showing -- chases, BARKING.

EXT. BADLANDS - SHORT TIME LATER

We are on the Moon. Or Israel. But not America. Not any

America we've ever seen. A thirty-mile eroded landscape of

dunes and crevices, soft rock strata and fossils. Barren.

And eerie. A LAKOTA DEATH SONG underscores the otherworldly

ambiance of this place as --

SHOES scuff through the gumbo and multi-colored stones. Two

pair of black, spit-shined, lace-ups. Three. Tripping.

Scuffing. And then a fourth pair. But they are not loafers.

They are Georgio Brutini's and they belong to --

Ray, as he and Cooch follow two Special Agents from the

regional office. SA MILES is about Cooch's age, balding. SA

SHERMAN is closer to Ray's age but instead of a suit like

the rest, he favors an army-green jacket. Neither is a South

Dakota shit-kicker but transplanted field agents. All four

shield their eyes with dark glasses, and here in the Badlands

it is wise because the sun makes dunes shimmy and craters

become faces. It plays mischief on the eye, making Ray and

Sherman nearly trip on --

A DEAD BODY

lying face down in the rainbow sand. Dried blood and horse

flies cover his blown out torso. The agents stand over him,

breathless from the rugged walk.

Cooch studies the body from where he stands. Sherman hands a

file over to Ray.

The agents start back through the Badlands. Ray is already

squatting a safe distance from the body, covering his nose

with a kerchief while looking in the file.

Cooch takes a bended knee on the other side of the body.

Flies buzz on and around the corpse.

Cooch makes a note then slowly circles the body. He holds a

hand out to Ray and the younger agent turns the file over.

Ray gets closer, swats at Flies with the folder.

Ray looks up impressed. Cooch rises and walks off gingerly,

scanning the surroundings.

Cooch is standing ten feet away, staring at the ground. Ray

walks over, carefully. He follows Cooch's frown down at the

twisted layers of earth.

ON THE GROUND

a circle has been etched deep in the soft gumbo, and in the

center of the circle, a white eagle plume sticks straight

up, dancing in the wind.

Cooch and Ray each lower themselves to their haunches to

study the strange sight. Cooch puts his reading glasses on,

stares at it. Then lights a cigarette.

Ray hefts up a camera and begins CLICKING off shots. He starts

moving around it, taking shots at different angles. And then

the sound of a DISTANT MOTOR draws both agent's attention.

POV:

way out in the bizarre moonscape of eroded rock and earth, a

lone figure on a motorcycle bounces and grinds, born out of

a silvery heat mirage. It's fifty yards off but heading

straight for us. The HEARTBEAT DRUM.

REVERSE - RAY AND COOCH try to make the figure out.

IN THE BADLANDS

the archaic mud-caked Harley chugs and stalls, spits and

choices, and begins an incredible drive straight up the steep

side of this natural wonder. At the throttle is an imposing

figure.

WALTER CROW HORSE is a portly Indian in his late-thirties

with a black reservation hat worn low over a face that seems

to have been cast from a bust of Sitting Bull. Sitting Bull

with aviator shades. Denim jacket over checkered shirt. Faded

jeans. Well broken duct-taped boots. His hair is worn long

in tight duel braids.

The rusted bike bajas up and down slopes, finally stalling

out, twenty feet or so from the murder site. Crow Horse swings

his bulk off the bike like dismounting a horse. He looks

around suspiciously then pulls a rolled-up blanket from the

carrier rack.

LEO LITTLE SKY

lies in death. Crow Horse's boots move in stealthily, creaking

like saddle leather.

He squats and looks at the corpse... then looks around with

animal alertness. He reaches into the front pocket of his

jacket and pulls out some Bull Durham tobacco. He pinches

some and offers it to the four directions around the body.

He then unrolls the blanket, begins to move the dead man...

sense something and wheels to see Cooch standing behind him,

one hand behind his back where his gun must be, and the other

hand holding up open wallet. The sun hits his badge.

Crow Horse hawks his eyes onto a big rock, a full second

before Ray steps out, his .45 drawn but held at ease.

Crow Horse slowly raises his arms as Ray moves up to him,

studying him.

Ray frisks the Indian, finds an old leather wallet, and then

a gun. A .38.

Cooch walks around to the front of Crow Horse, and studies

him.

A pause. A long, dead of South Dakota, Badlands pause. Cooch

turns and looks at Ray who holds up the open wallet, revealing

a badge. Like Cooch's it shines in the sun.

Cooch stands staring at the Indian... then takes a few steps

over to Ray and grabs the wallet. He examines it. Then looks

at Crow Horse and laughs.

The Indian cop has plenty of time to get up on his own but

he kneels there, tauntingly, waiting for Ray to help him.

Ray walks over and offers a hand. Crow Horse takes it, and

pulls himself up, looking square into Ray's sunglasses.

Cooch walks over and hands the officer his wallet, and his

.23. Crow Horse takes the items, eyeing the older agent.

Ray does a take but quickly recovers, meeting Crow Horse's

scrutinizing gaze. Crow Horse nods to Ray, and Ray nods back

in case it's the Indian thing to do. Crow Horse nods again.

Ray nods again.

Ray stares at Crow Horse, uneasy. The wind sings through the

Badlands.

Crow Horse says something in Sioux to Ray. Ray just stares.

Crow Horse is staring at Ray.

Ray looks offended. Cooch puts a hand on Crow Horse's shoulder

and walks him toward his beat-up motorcycle.

Crow Horse turns and looks at Ray. Ray is quick this time.

Crow Horse appears to be getting on his bike when suddenly

he moves like a cat and lays his knife to the dead man's

head. He cuts away a patch of hair.

Cooch and Ray stand there, watching Crow Horse mount his

bike and push off down a nasty slope back through the

Badlands. He starts his motor. It dies. Then starts again.

Ray and Cooch look off across the Badlands, as far out of

their element as they can be.

CLOSE ON - THE WHITE EAGLE PLUME

in the circle in the sand, fluttering in the wind.

The gold spit-shined Le Baron eases to a crawl, passing an

old wooden sign. "Leaving Bear Creak Indian Reservation."

And immediately pulling in front of a squat old bar with a

burned out neon Miller light. DWIGHT YOAKUM croons "Youuuuuu-

Got-Your Little-Ways" on the jukebox from inside.

The Buffalo Butte bar has several cracked and sun-bleached

buffalo skulls hanging off the edge of its flat roof and big

faded white letters painted across the front read: "No Indians

Allowed."

(This sign actually exists today in the res-line border town

of Scenic, South Dakota). The car pulls up beside a pick-up

and parks. Ray and Cooch step out, careful to walk wide around

a PITBULL in the bed of the truck.

A WHITE LOCAL walks out of the bar and looks askance at the

suits. As the two feds approach the bar, Cooch looks up at

the warning sign. Ray sees it too.

The young agent smiles, amused, starts to enter the bar but --

Ray spins quickly, paranoid about entering. But the man

calling to them is --

An Indian himself. TRIBAL PRESIDENT OLIVER CLEAR MOON, a

small man in his late fifties who peers out at the agents

through fat bifocals. He wears a straw cowboy hat, red

windbreaker and his hair is cut short, or "bobtailed" as the

Indians say.

Clear Moon is walking away from a parked pick-up truck, toward

the white men, eyeing the two with deep curiosity.

Cooch discreetly peeks into a folder as he walks toward the

man

He is pointing his long, skinny finger at Cooch.

Clear Moon beholds the young agent with hopeful eyes, a smile

breaking across his flaccid brown skin. He takes Ray's hand

in a respectful double-clutch and grips him tightly... almost

desperately.

He keeps pumping Ray's hand, looking into his face with great

admiration. Cooch looks on with amusement.

Clear Moon has not released Ray's arm as he leads them to a

string of seedy motel units across the street.

And Clear Moon guides them through the front door of room

13. Ray looks over his shoulder threateningly at Cooch who

winks and pats his back.

EXT. RESERVATION LINE - NIGHT

A lone headlight appears out of the black. HEARTBEAT DRUM.

But faster. Relentless. A "res" car, a dented, rusted, peeling

old station wagon, drives slowly toward the reservation.

Then suddenly, someone steps in front of the car. A BIG MAN

in cowboy boots and blue jeans.

INT. MOTEL - ROOM 13 - NIGHT

Ray lies in bed. Awake. He is hanging off the bed with a

file open on the floor and using the moon to light photos

and memorandums. And then he hears LAUGHTER outside. And

GLASS BREAK.

He gets out of bed quickly, snatching up his pants, putting

their on, and going to the window.

POV - OUT WINDOW:

SEVERAL LOCALS out in front of the bar help a middle-aged

INDIAN MAN out of the station wagon.

A young local bends down behind the Indian while another

shoves him, sending him tripping over the bent man and onto

his back in the dirt.

MORE LOCALS come out from the bar, beers and drinks and

interested in what's going on.

REVERSE - RAY

at the window, observes. Cooch enters from the connecting

room, puffy-eyed but quickly buttoning his shirt. He shares

Ray's view.

Ray is transfixed.

EXT. BUFFALO BUTTE BAR - NIGHT

The Indian man, is pushed into a stumble, and caught by

another white man as a little game of catch takes place.

Cooch, stepping into the circle, shirt half unbuttoned, hair

a mess, looks on. Then steps in front of a big local and

catches the Indian as he comes stumbling. He holds onto him,

looking at the faces that turn his way. Ray steps up beside

him, looking tense.

And then Cooch shoves the Indian with all his might back

across the road. The locals resume their fun, and Cooch looks

at a local man and shares a chattering laugh that makes Ray

do a serious take.

The Indian ends up stumbling back toward Ray, and Ray catches

him this time. The man maintains a perfect vacant expression

and keeps acting as though nothing of the sort is happening.

But he is dizzy, and exhausted, and Ray keeps him from

falling.

Cooch looks at Ray. Their eyes meet. Ray shoves the man

forward. This time, instead of catching him, the local on

the receiving end, hauls off and punches him in the face.

The Indian drops.

Cooch runs in, grabs the Indian under the arms and drags him

back to his car.

He shoves him behind the wheel as the locals crowd around.

They don't see Cooch throw the wheel stick in drive, and

lean into the man's ear.

Cooch slams the door, and kicks it, and the vehicle lurches

forward. A beer can clanks off the rear window, and rolls

clanking into the middle of the road.

Ray stands there with the locals as they all watch the car

drive off across the reservation line. Cooch, belly sticking

out of his unbuttoned shirt, and a breathless smile on his

face, heads to the bar without breaking stride. This man has

done "underground" before.

INT. BUFFALO BUTTE BAR - NIGHT - SHORT TIME LATER

Cooch and Ray sit in a booth with DENNIS VAUGHN, a strapping

local man, ranch-raised, and gentlemanly. In fact, downright

likeable.

BROOKS, a small, older man with a feed store cap and a clean

cowboy shirt, comes over with a beer and a pensive look on

his face. He pulls up a chair and positions himself at the

end of the booth.

Cooch and Ray don't flinch. Dennis does. He looks between

the two, cautiously.

Cooch laughs good-naturedly. Ray smiles. But Brooks looks

offended.

Ray catches this. Glances a look off Cooch who works on a

cold draught beer.

Both men shake their heads. Get quiet.

Cooch shakes his head, distracted, and the two locals leave,

enroute for the pool table. Ray watches them go, curious.

EXT. BUFFALO BUTTE BAR - NIGHT

Ray and Cooch, cross the street back to the motel. It is

black and chillingly still.

Cooch looks at Ray, impressed.

They stop in front of their rooms and Cooch pulls a small

tape recorder from his waistband. A micro-cassette recorder

that he examines in the dim door light.

Cooch shuts it off.

He hands Ray the recorder.

Cooch starts for his room but in a long, exaggerated country

step as he breaks into the HANK WILLIAMS tune that has all

but driven him insane inside the joint. Ray watches him go,

and cracks a laugh.

INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING - SUNRISE

Ray's at the wheel, looks intense as he studies the vast

expanse of slopes and rock formations and the rising sphere

of flame that lights the road in strange color. He is reading

a name list that he traps against the wheel.

Ray pulls up a long dirt drive and parks.

EXT. OLD TRAILER - ACROSS FROM BADLANDS  SUNRISE

Ray walks to the front door of a war-torn trailer that is

halfway swallowed by weeds and plants. It is static out here.

Dead still. Ray approaches the front door. There is a huge

hole in it. He knocks above the hole.

After a moment, the door opens a crack. A dark, weather-beaten

face barely shows.

The door closes. Locks.

Ray stands there for a moment then lowers himself to look

through the huge hole in the door.

A tattered chair is pushed against the door, covering the

hole. Ray stands up, turns on the steps. And before he can

let out a flustered sigh, he spots something across the dirt

road. Something that makes him remove his shades, look again.

Whatever it is, it doesn't make him happy, and he is hurrying

across the road.

EXT. BADLANDS - DAY

A motorcycle, parked between the road and the badlands. We've

seen the ancient bike before. Ray walks past it, looking at

it.

He pushes his shades up on the bridge of his nose and looks

down into the moonscape.

Walter Crow Horse is down there, on his haunches, "feel

tracking", laying his fingers inside tracks and reading them.

He doesn't even look up at the sound of the FBI agent's

footsteps.

The wind whistles and moans through the Badlands as Crow

Horse continues feel tracking.

Ray draws back.

Crow Horse lowers his face to the ground and blows some

scattered dust out of a print. Lightly lays his fingers inside

Crow Horse checks out another track.

Crow Horse rises, points down the road.

Ray is frowning at the big Indian, trying to get a fix on

this

Crow Horse walks back up toward the road.

Ray lets him leave then crouches where Crow Horse was, begins

looking at tracks.

Ray turns, and sees Crow Horse perched on a high bank -- the

one Ray came down -- and he's in a tracking stance.

Ray just stands frozen, blown away. Crow Horse rises, dusting

off his hands, and heading to his vehicle.

The Indian turns. The wind moans. Ray scrutinizes him,

deliberating.

Crow Horse grins and waves, and ambles away. DOWN IN

THE BADLANDS

Ray stands, sweating under his suit jacket, and not sure if

he's amazed or pissed off.

EXT MAISY BLUE LEGS HOUSE  BLACK TAIL DISTRICT - DAY

A trailer sits off from the river in beaten solitude. There

are two junked cars and one burned black.

Wind blows across deep bald tire tracks. Ray walks slowly

beside them, surveying, following them to a place where they

become puckers and skids next to a dilapidated outhouse.

There is a shotgun blast in the side of it. Ray studies it,

enters the outhouse. Exits, and walks the rutted gumbo earth

to where it meets rolling hills of golden grass. He stands

here, mesmerized.

CHICKENS scratch around in the dirt.

Like so many far-off res homesteads, this is a haunting place.

Made more so by a persistent SQUEAKING, a rusty, metallic

squeal coming from --

A WATER PUMP

across the yard, where MAISY BLUE LEGS, a Sioux elder, works

the handle. She wears thick bifocals and keeps her hair under

a bandanna. No water comes forth from the pump, and she tries

again and again until she breaks a sweat. And then she sees

the waal'cu standing out there.

Urgently, she turns and starts back to her trailer with an

empty coffee can.

Ray starts after her.

She mounts the metal steps. Ray is losing her. He gets a

foot on the bottom step, and attempts something he does not

want to do.

Halfway through the screendoor, Maisy turns and looks at the

young man in suit and shades.

Maisy lowers her bifocals, studies him. Then walks in, slaps

the door shut, and locks it. A towel hung as a shade folds

down.

Ray lingers at the bottom of the steps.

And he walks around the side of the trailer, looking at the

ground. In the gaping space between the trailer blocks, and

the grass, there is much junk stored, and Ray kneels to look.

He is drawn to a pair of cowboy boots, caked with dried mud.

He picks up a boot, looks at the sole, then touches the mud.

His fingers break through the hardened crust and come back

moist and blue. He looks at this sniffs it. There is a tense,

water-torture like tempo coming from the old pump where water

barely drips onto a hub cap in the dirt. Ray sets the boot

down. Goes to grab the other boot and --

a WESTERN DIAMOND BACK RATTLER coils out from the shade of

the boot, RATTLING and HISSING from white mouth and three-

inch fangs, and Ray has done a backflip and roll, slapping

his shoulder holster and pulling lead and BLAM! BLAAAM! he

unloads two, and the reptile is so dead, there's not even

enough snake left to make a truck-stop key chain.

He kneels there, flushed in the face, holding his breath and

double-clutching his gun. The SHOTS ECHO through the Badlands

like the aftermath of dynamite. From inside the trailer, he

can hear CRYING. A low moaning. Praying softly.

Then his RADIO CRACKS IN.

Ray looks relieved.

Ray looks down at the dead snake, still rushed from it, and

he hurries out of there.

IN THE SHADE OF THE TRAILER

the snake's RATTLE moves spasmodically, still kicking with

reflex.

EXT. LOOKS TWICE HOUSE - BEAR CREEK RES - NIGHT

CLOSE ON an AMERICAN FLAG, flapping in the hot night wind.

But something is wrong about the image. The flag is hung

upside lit by --

A full moon that also illuminates an overgrown field that

fronts a small, one-level house where the flag hangs. Three

old cars decorate the front yard. A busted screendoor creaks

in the wind, and somewhere off in the hills, a DOG BARKS

away his boredom.

INT. LE BARON

SA Couture and SA Levoi sit inside the car, staking out this

little place far down a dirt road on the outskirts of the

settlement.

Cooch has the suspect's file on his knee.

He hands an open file over to Ray.

CLOSE ON - FILE PHOTO: a raging fire and six long-haired,

fist-raising Indians, yelling at the camera.

RAY SHUFFLES TO

PHOTO 2 -- a big Indian in a wheel chair, holding a rifle.

He is shirtless under a vest and on his muscular right

shoulder there is a clearly defined tattoo of a circle with

an eagle feather through it.

PHOTO 3 -- a Close Up of the tattoo.

PHOTO 4 -- a propaganda flyer with the letters W.A.R.N. and

the same symbol -- perfect circle, pierced by a white eagle

feather.

Ray shuffles through more of the same with great interest.

Cooch takes a long, tight breath then turns around in his

seat, coming up with an M-16. Ray lifts one of his own. He

looks out the car window.

Cooch whacks a top clip into the M-16. Ray slams a clip in

his.

Car doors open in skillful silence.

LOOKS TWICE HOUSE - CLOSER - NIGHT

and Ray maneuver toward the house, rifles ready. Cooch gets

under the picture window, sneaks a look. Nothing. He follows

Ray around the side.

POV:

off in a backfield, lit by a hot fire, a small round hut

covered in patchwork quilts, canvas and buffalo hide. A

strange mist floats around it, and from inside, voices are

heard -- A DRUMMING AND CHANTING in LAKOTA. And EAGLE SOUNDS.

Dozens of shrill whistles. Are there birds inside this thing?

REVERSE - RAY

and Cooch, kneeling in the weeds, look dumbfounded. And more

than a little unnerved.

NEAR THE INIPI LODGE

An INDIAN YOUTH DOOR TENDER with shoulder length hair falling

over a T-shirt, steps out of the dark and walks to the fire.

He prods it with a broken pitch fork.

He turns to get some more wood and walks right into an M-16,

trained chest level. Ray stares him down.

The boy drops boot camp fast.

Cooch moves up on the sweat lodge, looking quizzically at

it, trying to figure out how to open it. He grabs a canvas

flap at the front and after a moment's hesitation and a look

at Ray, he tears the flap away.

A BLAST OF 200 DEGREE STEAM explodes forth and Cooch dances

back, throwing up his rifle.

GRANDPA SAMUEL REACHES, a rail-thin Sioux elder, appears

through the steam like a vision. Bent in the tiny doorway,

he searches out the interruption.

Cooch aims the M-16 at the old man.

Grandpa Reaches crawls out first, ignoring the "Hands on

your head" order from Cooch. His eyes move back and forth

between the two agents.

FIVE MORE INDIANS, from 16-45 come out, looking confused.

Cooch makes the towel-wrapped men spread out in a line. The

old man is speaking to the others in LAKOTA, and Ray steps

up to him, cuts him off.

The archaic figure just looks through him. Starts to walk

away. Ray takes his thin arm. He locks eyes with the old

man. Slowly, he obeys, raising his hands and laying them on

his head.

From the lodge, the last man emerges. It's Crazy Horse reborn

out of the burning sage. JIMMY LOOKS TWICE is in his mid-

thirties -- big, well over two-hundred pounds. But lean. His

braids fall nearly to his hips. His face is handsome but at

the moment, twisted in a full-blood's scowl.

Looks Twice shoots hawk-like black eyes onto Ray.

Cooch takes a careful step behind Jimmy and cuffs him. Looks

Twice speaks to the others in LAKOTA, and they disband,

heading to a shade arbor where their clothes hang.

As Cooch starts marching Looks Twice toward the house, Ray

keeps an eye on the departing. One of them stops halfway to

the fence and turns. Grandpa Reaches looks at Ray with eyes

that have seen one hundred and one hard years in Indian

Country.

And he follows Cooch and the cuffed Jimmy to the house.

AT THE BACK OF THE HOUSE

Cooch leads the half-naked suspect to the backdoor. Cooch

show: a warrant, tries the door but it is locked.

Jimmy doesn't answer. He glares with hatred into Cooch's

eyes.

Ray steps up, gets ready to throw a frontkick at the door.

With his hands cuffed, he can only jerk his head toward a

big hole in the wall down near the foundation. Cooch quickly

drops to a knee and checks out the hole.

Cooch reaches in, probes.

Something horrifying happens so fast, Cooch has no time to

react.

Whatever has taken his arm has done so with such force, his

body jolts like he's touched raw voltage. The South Dakota

BADGER rips through his leather jacket -- we get a glimpse

of its striped face and yellowed teeth -- through his shirt.

Through flesh, and deeper, GROWLING insanely while COOCH

HOLLERS in shock tries to pull free and --

Jimmy Looks Twice spins from the porch with a skillfully

executed back kick, knocking Ray off the step and to the

ground. The Indian bolts like a deer into the darkness.

Ray rolls in the grass, throwing his M-16 up. He hesitates.

But only for a moment before FIRING and decimating the corner

gutter, a junked car, several trees. But no sign of Jimmy.

Cooch falls back in the grass badly mauled. His arm has been

ripped open down to the bone.

Ray starts toward Cooch.

Ray takes off, crashing through weeds, into a stream, wading

through mud. He throws his flashlight left and right. He

crosses the river, shines the light in a field of wild sage.

Nothing. He runs like a sprinter, looking everywhere. But as

he enters an --

OPEN FIELD

all he finds is Jimmy's towel. He picks it up and looks around

the area, breathing heavily.

And then suddenly, something leaps up out of the grass. Ray

swings his M-16 up, ready to blast. But it is a DEER, taking

off into a mystical blue night. THE DRUM. Beating fast. Heavy.

TURTLESHELL RATTLE. EAGLE BONE WHISTLES.

IN THE YARD

Cooch traps his bleeding arm between his knees to stanch the

blood. He speaks quietly but firm into his radio, trying to

stay in control.

EXT. BEAR CREEK RESERVATION - LANDSCAPE - SUNRISE

A mind-blowing Aurora. Living clouds. The incredible mesa.

PULLING BACK slowly to the dirt road where a line of federal

aerials high, enter Indian Country.

HEARTBEAT DRUM. But a fast heartbeat. A relentless pulse

throughout --

AN FBI SATURATION SEARCH

FOUR AGENTS surround a little tar-paper shack, rifles up and

ready. Two go in, and flush out an OLD WOMAN, an OLD MAN,

and some TEN CHILDREN. DOGS.

A SMALL TRAILER that has thirty junked cars in its yard and

serves as a reservation parts store is crawling with FEDERAL

MARSHALS; car doors are being opened, trunks. TRACKING DOGS

run through the cars. WARPATH DRUMS...

-- A BELL UH 1-B "HUEY" HELICOPTER chutters low over the

grasslands, over the Badlands, flattening wheat. It swings

down over the main settlement. CHILDREN gather in the street

to look up at it but then run when --

-- SIX FEDERAL CARS come down the main road. They pass by --

-- THE FRONT PORCH OF THE TRADING POST where Ray stands,

talking to the elders. A few of the same from earlier but

several new ones.

He is sweat-drenched, and has shed his jacket and tie. He is

showing them photos of Jimmy but getting no response. And

then, for a little iodine on top of that, a MOTORCYCLE ENGINE,

spitting and choking and coughing comes around the corner,

Walter Crow Horse, manning the handlebars.

He pulls up to Ray and just looks at him. DRUMS FADE.

Ray soaks sweat off his forehead as he eyes the Indian on

this one. He sees himself in the polaroid shades.

Ray quickly leaves the porch.

EXT. GRANDPA SAM REACHES TRAILER - OUTSIDE SETTLEMENT - DAY

Silent. The unnerving silence of the Great Plains filled

only by FLYS, big horseflies, buzzing around drying sage

that hangs from the rafters of a shade arbor. A GOAT stands

under it, just gazing across --

the vast spread of grass and dry land where an ancient

Airstream trailer sits lop-sided. Sheets are hung as curtains.

Six old cars -- two from the early 50'a -- sit stripped to

the hubs on blocks in the overgrown grass. The air is dry

and heavy and the only sound is --

FLYS. Ray swats at them as he steps over a truck seat that

lies in the grass, stuffing and springs hanging out. Crow

Horse walk. a few steps ahead, toward the trailer.

Crow Horse nods slowly, looking at Ray in a very serious

manner

Crow Horse stops walking, making Ray do the same.

Ray reaches into his shirt pocket and fishes out a pack of

Marlboro. Crow Horse glances at it, and shrug-nods. They

continue on toward the trailer.

INT. GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER

Grandpa Samuel Reaches sits in a taped and tuckered easy

chair, his alert black eyes moving from side to side. We

recognize him from the sweat lodge ceremony at Looks Twice'

although today he wears a straw cowboy hat giving him a more

youthful look despite a face like a map of the Badlands.

He wears a vest over a western shirt, baggy work slacks, old

cowboy boots.

His brown wrinkled hands run over the top of the Marlboro

pack as if he's reading braille.

Crow Horse sits across from him on a stool. Ray leans on one

of the plain green walls, looking uncomfortable. A three

foot adhesive fly strip hangs from the ceiling, thick with

dead ones. There is a black and white TV with Sesame Street

wailing, honking and guffawing through static.

Grandpa fixes his eyes on Ray for only split seconds at a

time but one gets the feeling he's doing an incredibly deep

reading of the young man. Slowly, he sits up -- focusing

intensely on Ray.

He begins to speak. A hoarse, strained, string of LAKOTA,

spoken like it used to be, gesturing toward Ray. When he

finishes, he sits back in his chair. Ray looks intrigued.

Ray looks puzzled. Crow Horse laughs bull-wild as Grandpa

takes up a fly swatter and takes out a big horsefly. The old

man begins speaking Indian again.

Crow Horse turns a questioning look at Ray. Ray doesn't

flinch.

Crow Horse stops translating suddenly even though the old

man continues speaking. Crow Horse looks concerned, and ASKS

A QUESTION IN LAKOTA. We don't know what he's asking but the

tone is absolute amazement.

This question triggers an exchange between he and Grandpa,

the old one getting angry. Grandpa wins.

Ray's brow is drawn tense as he stares at the old Indian,

absorbing the translation. Grandpa speaks more fervently

now, incorporating Indian sign. Each time Grandpa does the

hard Sioux HAND SLAP, Ray blinks.

The old man has taken a long wooden stem and a red stone

bowl from a beaded pipe bag. He joins the two together then

begins offering a pinch of tobacco to the Four Directions.

While this goes on, Ray fidgets.

The old man is offering the pipe to Ray.

Ray looks at Grandpa. The old man offers the pipe again.

Ray takes the pipe, looks at it... then passes it to Crow

Horse. The big Indian takes it from Ray, giving him a long

eye, then offering the pipe to The Directions before smoking.

Crow Horse puffs hard, eyes closed, then slowly releases

some smoke upward. Ray watches it climb and fade. The old

man then takes up an old turtle shell rattle. He speaks.

He shakes the rattle very slightly, moving it in front of

Ray. He speaks just above a whisper.

Ray smirks.

Crow Horse asks the old man in Lakota. No answer. The pipe

is back to grandpa, and he offers it to the Directions, to

the Earth then upward before smoking himself. He begins to

speak again.

Passionately. In long glottal Sioux sentences, adding sign,

fingers crossing, brushing an arm, a slap here and there,

He is working himself into an excited state, and Ray keeps

looking at Crow Horse, very interested in the old man's

answer.

Finally Grandpa's breath comes up short and wheezing, he

ends his oratory with a solid hand slap.

Crow Horse ignores him. Grandpa speaks again. More hand

language.

The old man is staring at Ray while whispering to Crow Horse.

He strokes his badger claw necklace.

Crow Horse looks at Ray and seems hesitant to translate this

new piece of information.

Grandpa smiles toothlessly. Ray who has his driving glasses

in hand, lifts them to say "these?" but Grandpa sees it as

an accepted deal, and swiftly removes his necklace. He holds

it out.

Ray slowly, hesitantly surrenders his sunglasses, and takes

the necklace. Crow Horse bursts into laughter and so does

Grandpa, enjoying a good trade. He draws a hand through the

air in a sort of horizontal karate chop, meaning done deal.

Ray looks confused. Out of his element. And out of his shades.

Another fly gets snagged on sticky tape.

EXT. GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER

Crow Horse is hurrying toward his bike, Ray with him.

Crow Horse keeps walking.

Crow Horse stops walking and eyes Ray, deliberating.

A silent moment. Ray tries to figure out what he's missing

here.

Ray stares vacantly.

Crow Horse KICK STARTS his bike and burns off down the drive

Ray feels the presence of the old man, standing behind the

busted screen door. Just watching.

OVER THIS, A SCREAMING. A HIGH-PITCHED, CHILLING, SCREAM

that takes us straight into --

SLACK TAIL POWWOW GROUNDS - RES - LATER

CLOSE ON A TERRIFYING FACE -- painted in blazing red and

yellow, black around the eyes. A ridge of feathers high along

the hairline, and a mouth open, tongue trilling -- SCREAMING.

A WACIPI

is going down. A Powow. Held in the center of a huge arbor.

This DANCER, a traditional Kit Fox dancer, is dressed in

authentic costume and is dancing with TEN OTHERS dressed in

various traditional garb and paints.

Under the arbor, TWO HUNDRED INDIANS in modern clothing sit

on blankets or in lawn chairs, watching the dancing. A group

of SINGERS sit around a big drum, beating on it, and wailing

the song that keeps the dancers hopping.

SIXTY CARS (res beaters) are parked off around the arbor,

less interested kids sitting on them, smoking cigarettes. A

few actually have MTV hair-cuts.

Drifting through the cars and people are Special Agents

Couture, Miles, Sherman and Levoi. They stroll through,

incongruously, checking out faces. Vehicles.

Ray slows his step and takes in --

THE POWWOW CIRCLE

as the dance ends. WEAK APPLAUSE. The POWWOW CALLER, a big

Sioux with a crew-cut and cowboy shirt, speaks through a

scratchy P.A. system.

An OLD-INDIAN MAN sitting in a lawn chair, removes his cowboy

hat and reaches down toward a blanket. He brings up his VFW

hat, adorned with medals and puts it on. Slowly, he rises,

and shuffles out to the center pole along with --

FOUR OTHER VETERANS who have exchanged cowboy hats for

veteran's caps. There is even a traditional dancer in there,

wearing a veteran cap. As a mournful WAR SONG is banged out

by the singers, a flag is unrolled by the veterans. An

American Flag. Unrolled, and set on the mast. And together,

all five Indian men, hoist --

THE AMERICAN FLAG

high. Slowly it climbs. Proudly. It blows in the hot South

Dakota wind.

OUTSIDE THE ARBOR

Ray stands, watching this. And then the SONG ENDS. A loud,

angry voice breaks across the P.A.

AT THE CROW'S NEST (CALLER'S BOOTH)

ANDERSON CHASING HAWK, a young Indian in ribbon shirt and

long hair has taken possession of the microphone. SIX W.A.R.N.

MEMBERS stand behind him. He speaks loud, firm, with the

sharp gestures of an old way Chief.

The veterans just stand under the flag, solemn, looking at

Chasing Hawk. The flag undulates soundlessly.

OUTSIDE THE ARBOR

the four FBI agents stand, watching.

AT THE CROW'S NEST

Chasing Hawk hands the mic over to another Warrior. MAGGIE

EAGLE BEAR would be the most beautiful woman Ray has even

seen if she was not the meanest-looking. Her thick black

hair falls over a denim jacket down below her horse-hair

belt. Her faded jeans are stuffed into worn cowboy boots.

And she is full of fire. She begins speaking in LAKOTA.

Fluently. And with hand sign, like the old man.

OUTSIDE THE ARBOR

the agents stand. Cooch is writing into a small notebook.

As Ray watches her, someone approaches in a less hostile

manner. It is President Clear Moon, looking very upset. He

holds the hand of a LITTLE GIRL, dressed in traditional

dancing garb.

He approaches Ray.

Clear Moon gestures for the little girl to run off. He leans

in close to Ray.

Clear Moon is looking past Ray at the Warriors. They are

approaching the agents, and Clear Moon looks at Ray with

great concern.

And he slowly retreats to his lawn chair under the arbor.

Chasing Hawk, Maggie and the other Warriors strut up to the

agents. All but one who is bound to a wheelchair. We've seen

RICHARD YELLOW BIRD, the big Cheyenne who wears a Red Power

baseball cap, an earring, and thick bifocals -- in one of

the file photos. His arms are plastered with tattoos.

The warriors make a show of not acknowledging the FBI

presence. They have walked over here just to walk by them.

That is there statement. But Yellow Bird stops cranking the

wheels of his chair and stop: long enough to look up at Ray.

Even the agents crack grins at this bit of Indian wit. All

but Ray who just stands there, arms folded across his chest,

considering the crippled activist.

Yellow Bird sits there, staring up at him through thick

glasses But then Maggie Eagle Bear takes the handles of Yellow

Bird's wheel chair. She looks at Ray with eyes that are choke-

cherry black, eyes that look right through him. He returns

the glare. And then she pushes Yellowbird forward and leaves

the feds alone.

Ray turns to Cooch who is lighting a cigarette, and

concentrating on the movements of this group as they wander

under the arbor, visiting people. LAKOTA SINGERS start up.

IN THE POWWOW CENTER

the under ten year-old "fancy dance" -- TWENTY-FIVE INDIAN

CHILDREN, whirling and stomping and dancing.

JIMMY LOOKS TWICE HOUSE - NIGHT

The battered old house sits under a full moon. The upside

down flag moves slightly in the cross winds.

ACROSS THE ROAD

several junked cars. Among them a black, rusted out VW van

with a smashed windshield. A PACK OF RES DOGS sniff at its

tires.

INT. JIMMY'S VAN

In the dim light, a boot. A black cowboy boot. Up on the

dash. Bluejeans. T-shirt. Second hand leather. And a black

cowboy hat. Ray is staking out Jimmy's house.

Across the passenger seat and console is an M-16 rifle. On

his belt, a .357 Red Hawk. He yawns. From outside, he hears

a sound.

POV: down below the van, a small, patchy RES DOG with a

missing leg is looking up at him with his tongue long and

salivating.

RAY breaks off a piece of sandwich and drops it down to him

just as -- HEADLIGHTS catch his face. He slides down low,

watching an old pick-up truck creak onto the dirt road,

leading to Jimmy's.

POV: the truck parks. Someone jumps out, gracefully. Indian.

Long braid. Quick steps. Front door. Inside.

RAY lifts his radio.

Ray sets his radio down, unclips the leather guard on his

handgun. Picks up the Big Mac.

EXT. LOOKS TWICE HOUSE - NIGHT

The front door creaks open, and the subject dashes back out.

In the dark we cannot latch onto features.

Suddenly the junker van comes alive, guns onto the dirt road,

racing toward the running Indian who gets the door of the

truck open but freezes in the van's highbeams as --

Ray leaps out, M-16 in hand.

Ray maneuvers in Quantico fashion, keeping the rifle on the

Indian's back. The Indian drops what he's holding. And turns

around. It's not a he. We've seen her before. At the Powwow.

Maggie Eagle Bear. Her hair is pulled back tight, braided.

Ray moves in toward her, surprised at first, but still

cautious

She does what he tells her. As Ray moves in on her, he notices

an INDIAN CHILD sitting in the passenger seat, looking out

into the highbeams, frightened.

Ray toes Maggie's legs out wider, frisks her one-handed,

pats down her boots.

Maggie turns around, looks Ray in the eye. He looks self-

conscious in the cowboy hat.

Ray is looking down at what she dropped. A bundle lying in

the grass. He bends down, starts to untie it.

IN THE BUNDLE -- an eagle skull, tobacco strings, sage, sweet

grass, and several white eagle feathers.

Ray doesn't have a clue as to what this radical bullshit is

about.

If this information doesn't throw Ray, the use of his first

name does.

Ray is holding the medicine bundle. He deliberates, then

hands it over. She takes it with careful hands, casting a

somewhat surprised look up at him.

Maggie gets in the truck, starts it up. She looks out at

him, studying him. Trying to figure him out. HEADLIGHTS are

coming fast from down the main road.

Maggie drives forward, turning down another little wagon

road, and bumping into the black night only moments before,

Cooch's Le Baron pulls in.

SA Miles and Sherman's vehicle pull in behind it. The regional

feds fall in behind Cooch, everyone, packing rifles.

Ray turns, nodding. An FBI van pulls in from the other

direction and FOUR AGENTS empty out, wearing FBI windbreakers

and heavily-armed.

Cooch nods. The agents form a tight unit out below the upside

down flag.

Ray reaches inside his pant leg, down around his boot and

carefully removes a white eagle feather. He gingerly tucks

it in a plastic bag.

Sherman and Miles, take off. Cooch, an impressive master of

COINTELPRO, now turns to the van squad.

The van squad moves toward the house, leaving Cooch and Ray

alone in the highbeams that light the yard.

Ray nods, impressed.

Cooch bends down near the road, touches the dirt.

Cooch wipes the oil on a handkerchief as he rises, smiling

playfully at Ray. He starts back toward his car. Some sort

of bird is COOING in the night.

Ray looks up at the upside down flag. Then watches Cooch

walking way.

Cooch, standing there with his glasses on and his right arm

bandaged, looks tired, too. He gets in his car.

In the yard, Ray starts for the van, the res dog, trying to

follow. He chases it away. And then as he gets closer to the

van, he looks up to investigate the COOING SOUND.

AT THE TOP OF THE FLAG POLE

there is a shadow. What looks to be a large bird. It just

hovers. In the shadows.

DOWN BELOW

Ray looks up at the pole, watching. Then walking on.

EXT. BEAR CREEK RES - SUNRISE

Mind-blowing sunrise of airbrush red. Clusters of lodge-pole

pine. The spectacular mesa. PAINT HORSES graze in a field, a

few out in the center of the road.

AT GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER

the old man comes down the front steps in a frail walk,

carrying a paper plate. He steps down into the sage clusters

that grow just off his trailer, and offers the plate up toward

the sky.

He then stoops, and scrapes a half-eaten English muffin,

some potato chips and half a banana onto the Earth in a neat

pile.

He straightens his back the best he can, looks up again, and

prays softly.

THE BADLANDS

possess an otherworldly beauty at this magic hour, a maze of

shadows and rainbows. In the distance we cannot mistake the

frame of Walter Crow Horse. He's out there, long hair blowing

against the white bluffs. Stalking. Tracking.

ON THE VILLAGE ROAD

a puppy chases a hen in a klutzy, innocent manner then bumps

into the tire of a parked car. Taking a shot at doghood, he

hikes his leg, squirts a hubcap belonging to --

Cooch's Le Baron. Cooch leans on the hood, drinking a coffee

from a foam-plastic cup, and supervising SIX G-MEN who have

a map spread out over the hood and are discussing it.

MAGGIE EAGLE BEAR'S HOUSE

is way out in a remote corner of the res, a little home,

trailer and tipi right on the river. The river is rushing

hard this morning, catching the light of the sun. Maggie's

truck is parked in front.

Out at the river, Maggie, her hair long and unbrushed, and

wearing an extra large T-shirt and nothing else is hauling

water in buckets from the river.

THREE INDIAN CHILDREN are with her, helping her. Near the

house, an OLD WOMAN in bifocal glasses, feeds some chickens,

and a cat that gathers with the chickens and eats feed.

INT. OLD VAN  NEAR MAGGIE'S

Ray, still in his field clothes sits, training binoculars on

the distant house. He opens a carton of milk, drinks some.

Then hears a whimpering. In the passenger seat sits the three

legged res dog. Ray has taken him with him. He drinks some

milk, then opens the carton up fully and sticks it out so

the dog can lap it up. Ray laughs in disbelief, shaking his

head.

The dog is lapping the milk, desperately. And then a ROARING.

A motorcycle.

IN THE SIDE MIRROR: Crow Horse, racing up on the left of the

van. Ray pulls his hat down low, and sits back. The motorcycle

passes on the left, slowing enough so that Crow Horse can

flip Ray the middle finger. Then he races on, far down the

road.

Ray sits there, shaking his head. He'll let it go. Bullshit.

He starts the car.

EXT. TRIBAL POLICE SHOOTING RANGE - DAWN

Crow Horse guns in, sliding in dirt up to the run-down, low

budget shooting range -- six plastic milk jugs on sticks,

jammed in the mud.

A moment later, the van hammers in. Parks. Ray gets out.

He's removed his hat so as not to invite any crap from Crow

Horse.

Ray executes a hard, slapping, "up your ass" gesture.

Crow Horse bursts into laughter in his raspy, staccato laugh.

He walks off a few steps, picks up a spent shell and pitches

it. His laughter simmers and he gets serious.

Crow Horse fingers an eagle feather that hangs from his hat

band.

Crow Horse stares, a little surprised.

Ray absorbs this with great interest.

Ray lets a pent-up sigh escape.

Crow Horse chews this over, unable to hide a nagging

frustration. He shakes his head.

The two of them stand there, thinking this over. Ray takes

out his notebook and starts writing. Crow Horse walks away,

turns to face the propped up targets.

To punctuate, Crow Horse slaps leather, draws his .38, and

begins blasting at the milk bottles. He hits the bank. A

tree. One of the posts. But not a single target.

When he is done, he looks over his gun, disappointed. Starts

reloading. Ray starts laughing, looking at the missed targets

Ray looks at Crow Horse, sees that he's serious, and follows

him toward his motorcycle.

Crow Horse turns toward Ray, and creates a long dramatic

pause.

And he hauls his bulk onto his motorbike.

Crow Horse winks at Ray as he slams the kickstart. To no

avail.

And Crow Horse nails his kick start. The BIKE ROARS alive

and the Indian works the throttle hard, leaving gravel and

black exhaust. Ray stands there, drifting between logic and

instinct. He looks at his watch, then starts at a slow,

thoughtful shuffle toward his car.

EXT. GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER - SHORT TIME LATER

The dust-buzzard broncs and bounces down Grandpa's driveway,

coming to a stop near the wrecked cars. Crow Horse dismounts

and unhooks a carton of smokes from the back.

A moment later, the junker van pulls in, bouncing and shaking.

Crow Horse stares at the approaching vehicle, his eyes hidden

behind Ray's former shades. He cracks a slow smile because --

Ray is stepping quickly from the van, and carrying two packs

of Marlboros.

INT. GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER

Grandpa sits in his chair, his black eyes moving smoothly

from side to side. Smoke enshrouds his ancient face, giving

the sense of another time and place. He speaks LAKOTA.

Crow Horse, sitting on a stool across from him, holds The

Pipe. He passes it to Ray who sits in a busted lawn chair

next to him. The room is dark as the sun sets out the window

in red and purple. Ray looks at the pipe. Grandpa will not

speak until Ray smokes. And so he does, drawing on the stem,

awkwardly.

HEARTBEAT DRUM as Grandpa speaks Indian.

Ray looks at Crow Horse, searching for a hint of lightness.

But there is only great reverence as he watches Ray blow

smoke upward.

Ray smirks as he passes the pipe to Grandpa. Crow Horse looks

nervous. Grandpa offers the pipe to the directions and then

disengages the bowl from the stem. He speaks again. Crow

Horse translates.

Grandpa leans closer to Crow Horse and whispers some Lakota.

Ray looks at Crow Horse, nervous.

And Grandpa is already holding out something to offer. It is

a cigarette. Grandpa offers it again.

Crow Horse tells the Old Man. Grandpa speaks Indian.

Ray buries his hands in his jacket pocket. No way. Crow Horse

signs to Grandpa "no." Grandpa gets up, crosses between the

two young men, up to the TV set. He turns it on.

WHEEL OF FORTUNE

explodes in PINGS AND PONGS and a WOMAN'S SHRILL SCREAM.

EXT. GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER - DAY

Crow Horse and Ray walk down the steps. WHEEL OF FORTUNE is

heard from within.

They step into the yard and Ray stops, turning to Crow Horse

Crow Horse drives "Indian" home with a hard finger in Ray's

chest. Ray knocks his hand away, explosively. Crow Horse is

ready.

The old man is standing at the top of the steps. Ray and

Crow Horse are YELLING OVER EACH OTHER, and hands are up.

Ray stands there, one hand up in defense, another poised to

throw a punch. Bewildered, he stares at the old Indian holding

onto the porch railing.

And Grandpa goes back in, screendoor slapping shut behind

him. Ray is just staring, his jaw dropped. Crow Horse starts

laughing. Harder than he has yet, and Ray starts walking

toward his car in fuck-this steps.

He gets into the car, closes the door and looks out the open

window at Crow Horse. The Indian moves first.

Ray lifts his arm off the door, and springs his middle finger

up at Crow Horse. He holds it there for a long moment just

looking at the big Indian.

Ray checks the time on his watch then guns away. Crow Horse

stands there, watching him go. Eventually he shuffles back

toward the trailer.

EXT. BUFFALO BUTTE MOTEL - NIGHT

Room 14 has been transformed into a major COINTELPRO base;

four computer terminals are set up, card tables spread with

photos, boxes of files stacked on the bed, and SIX AGENTS,

manning the computers, thumbing through files.

THE CONNECTING ROOM (RAY'S ROOM)

A meeting takes place around a table of paperwork and coffee

cups, and a .45 laid atop a file. Cooch, SA Miles, SA Sherman,

TWO OTHER REGIONAL AGENTS and Ray.

Cooch taps some ashes into an empty coffee cup. They sizzle

in cold residue.

The agents all look at Ray. A pin can be heard falling to

the cheap carpet.

Cooch nods, lights another smoke, intrigued.

LAUGHTER. Except for Cooch who just stares at Ray, digesting

what he has said.

Sherman looks at Cooch.

Cooch nods to Ray and Ray follows, gathering up some paperwork

He looks determined as a terrier.

EXT. BUFFALO BUTTE MOTEL - NIGHT

Ray and Cooch throw long, slim shadows on their way to an

archaic Coke machine.

Ray studies him with a smile building. Cooch shrugs, sips

some soda.

Ray nods, starting for the van.

He turns. Cooch looks at him for a time. It is a warm look.

Ray gets in and pulls the dog out. The dog sits at roadside,

tilting its head at him, confused. And he pulls out. It runs

after him.

EXT. DIRT ROAD NEAR EAGLE BEAR'S - RES - NIGHT

The van sits parked down the road from Maggie's dimly-lit

home. Ray sits behind the wheel, watching the house. LOCUSTS

make a steady and unnerving sound. It is black. Black under

big sky. Ray lets his head sag out the open window and he

takes in the vastness.

POV: stars. Millions of stars. And an incredible full moon.

It hangs huge over distant fields, a perfect sphere. The top

half of the moon is yellow, the bottom half a lava red.

REVERSE - RAY

stares at it, lost in thought. From Maggie's house, he hears

someone SINGING. Singing a traditional SUNDANCE SONG while

they haul water from the creek. A WOMAN'S VOICE, trilling

out the beautiful but haunting "hey-o-hey-o-hey-o-hey-ohhhhh."

Ray just sits, listening. And then something draws his

attention to his rearview mirror.

The res dog, lying in the back seat is GROWLING. Lip curled

back, growling low.

Ray looks at him, looks out the window. Blackness. Nothing

but the sound of locusts. And a slight crosswind in the wheat

fields. The dog stops growling. And Ray fixes his gaze on

the house again, lifting a pair of binoculars and --

BOOOOOOM! The rear windshield is SHATTERED by an explosion.

Ray throws himself low across the passenger seat -- BOOOOOM!

The driver's side window and part of the door explodes.

RES ROAD NEAR EAGLE BEAR'S

The federal van is HAMMERED BY GUNFIRE. All the windows,

shattered, the metal doors splayed. Someone is going for the

kill,

THE PASSENGER DOOR

is thrown open just as its window implodes, and Ray slides

out belly first, gripping his M-16 and crawling like a dog

soldier into tall wheat at roadside as the car, the road,

the wheat, the dirt, the night are slammed by gunfire.

The res dog overtakes Ray and vanishes in the wheat. Ray

vanishes, too. It is quiet for a moment, then Ray, pops up

ten feet away, and UNLOADS THE M-16, in a left to right,

clean sweep before dropping again. He lies there, listening.

The LOCUST HAVE GONE QUIET. His breath is heavy. His heart's

got to be pounding through the dirt he lays in.

LONG SHOT - THE ROAD

the decimated van, aerial still high. The distant lights of

Maggie's house. And the giant Moon, hovering over it all.

HEARTBEAT DRUM into --

SAME ROAD  RES - DAWN

TWENTY FEDS comb the dirt road, the wheat fields, picking up

shells with gloved hands, scanning the vast distance.

IN THE FRONT YARD of Maggie's, FOUR INDIAN CHILDREN stand

with the Old Woman, watching.

INT. LE BARON  TRAVELING  ANOTHER DIRT ROAD

Cooch, flushed in the face, mans the wheel. He wears only a

T-shirt which indicates, a desperate rush to the scene. His

eyes scan the surrounding homes and fields.

In the passenger seat, Ray sits, drinking a coffee. He looks

haggard.

Ray turns around in his seat, looking off across dry land.

He does. Ray is turned around in his seat, staring off into

the distance.

EXT. DIRT ROAD

The Le Baron whines backward, and off the road, into some

grass Ray steps out, keeping his gaze fixed. Cooch bails

from the driver's side, joins him.

HEARTBEAT DRUM.

RAY'S POV: Four-hundred feet across a flat area of sandstone

and grass clusters, something shimmers in the undulations of

the harsh morning sun. Something of pea green and rusty

metal... glass catches sunlight and makes prisms. A car. An

old res car, sitting in a long, chasm in barely a foot of

green water.

EXT. DRY WASH - SHORT TIME LATER - PAY

Ray and Cooch go through the car, around the car, with gloved

hands and grease pencils and plastic bags, sweating in the

hot sun.

Excited, Ray walks off, scanning the area.

Ray picks up a handful of stones, sifts them in his hands.

Cooch watches him slosh shoes first through a rut where the

water shimmers a foot deep or less.

Ray turns, shucking up mud.

Ray doesn't hear Cooch. He stares past the SAC at the long

wide chasm, wet in some places, arid in others, and what he

hears must be an echo in his head.

Cooch is listening to a TRANSMISSION across his radio and he

walks off a few feet, exchanging information with the

REGIONALS.

Ray stands, ankle deep in stagnant water, his face sweat-

soaked, his eyes transfixed on heat undulations.

EXT. BUFFALO BUTTE MOTEL - ROOM 13 - DAY

A flat-bed tow truck drives past the motel with the killer's

car on it. Behind the truck is a fed car which stops at the

motel, and the Le Baron which also pulls in. Miles and Sherman

get out from the first car, Ray and Cooch bail from the Le

Baron.

With RADIOS TRANSMITTING, the agents walk, dusty and tired,

into room 14. Ray hesitates, snagged by the sight of --

A motorcycle parked in front of the Buffalo Butte Bar. Parked

with pick-up trucks and station wagons. It's the mud-caked

old Barley. Parked right under the NO INDIANS sign.

He puzzles over this.

INT. BUFFALO BUTTE BAR - DAY

Dark. Even during the day. Cigarette smoke. Sawdust. On the

archaic juke box, RANDY TRAVIS sings "Old 8x10" while behind

the bar, the BAR OWNER, an old man with long white hair and

beard, busies himself with leather work. SEVERAL WHITE LOCALS

sit on the old water drum bar stools.

Heads lift, turn when Ray enters in his "fraternizing" clothes --

jeans and boots, leather jacket. He scuffs up thick sawdust

as he heads to the furthest booth back where --

Crow Horse sits, alone over a bourbon and a beer. Ray

approaches carefully, upset by the sight. He slides into the

booth and point blanks the Indian.

Crow Horse shimmers his black eyes onto Ray.

Ray just looks vacantly at Crow Horse. Crow Horse resents

the vacancy.

Ray glares at him.

Ray doesn't blink.

Crow Horse leans toward Ray and speaks more quietly.

Ray is fuming. He can't believe what he's hearing, what's

being insinuated, but he's giving it thought and it's getting

him angry. He smashes a hand down on the table.

Standing over the booth is a long, tall RANCHER'S SON. Rangey

with red curly hair tucked under a BLACK HILLS CLASSIC cap,

and arms built by tractor work. And behind him, TWO OLDER

RANCHERS fall in. And ANOTHER YOUNG MAN, grinning with

amusement.

Ray and Crow Horse look up.

Ray realizes now that they think he's Indian, too. Crow Horse

sees this revelation and complicates it by suddenly speaking

LAKOTA to Ray.

The rancher grabs Ray by the cheeks.

Ray decks him. Backhands him in the solar plexus then, lays

a burner of a Quantico roundhouse to his ear, knocking him

across the bar, over a mop and bucket and into sawdust.

The others start to fall at him but someone has jumped in,

holding them back, and sticking himself in the way. It is

Brooks. The old timer Ray met his first night here.

The rancher's son who is coming back with a broken beer

bottle, slows his step and shifts his eyes from Brooks to

the young fed There is a lot of heavy breathing. But no

talking just yet. The young rancher eyes Ray.

Ray just stands tense, staring at him. And it's strange.

Because he hasn't really looked like he has any Indian blood

up to this moment. But dressed the way he is, and his eyes

glaring, face drawing tense, he might pass for a breed

although that's probably the Italian. But Ray doesn't answer

the question. Crow Horse starts laughing. Drunkenly.

Crow Horse rises and walks unsteadily across the floor,

leaving the bar. Brooks is whispering to the others,

apparently about who Ray is. The bar man comes up to Ray,

holding a tray, on which sits a shot and a beer. Ray looks

at it for a moment.

Ray knocks the tray out of his hand, spilling beer and whiskey

all over the bar man and the locals around him.

And he walks out, leaving the locals confused.

INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING - RES - DAY

Ray looks strung-out as he drives. If it's not the conflict

at the Butte, it's the dangerous seed Crow Horse planted,

and it is playing with his mind. He is on his RADIO.

But before he hangs the radio. IT CUTS BACK IN.

Ray seethes quietly as he drives.

Ray keeps driving.

EXT. WOUNDED KNEE MEMORIAL - DAY

Maggie's old pick-up is parked near an arch gate of the tiny

cemetery where a tall monument is fenced off from other graves

There are tobacco offerings and other medicines hanging on

the fence and on the monument.

It is a quiet place. Still.

Maggie stands before the unkempt monument in her denim jacket,

her hair blowing across her face in the wind. She PRAYS IN

LAKOTA.

Behind her TEN CHILDREN from the Bear Creek School stand,

heads bowed respectfully. Two of them sit on the lap of

Richard Yellow Bird who looks on from his wheelchair, praying

quietly with Maggie. When Maggie completes her prayer, she

ties some tobacco to the monument then turns and faces the

children. One of them, a LITTLE GIRL -- heavy-set -- raises

a hand that we might note is deformed. As many of the children

we have seen on the res, are.

Maggie smiles at the boy.

The CHILDREN LAUGH. All but one boy, who isn't paying

attention. He is staring up at a hill, off in the distance.

MAGGIE'S POV: on the hill, a figure stands, hands in his

pockets, hair blowing in the wind. Ray.

REVERSE - MAGGIE

keeping her eyes on the Wasi'cu, but addressing Yellow Bird.

ON THE HILL

Ray stands, watching Maggie walking into the wind, toward

him. Behind her an HONORING SONG, sung by ten children haunts

the still air.

He doesn't budge as she mounts the gentle bluff and joins

him there.

A long silence. The voices carry in the wind.

Maggie looks at him. They lock eyes.

As if exhausted by the thought, Maggie sits down on the bluff,

looking out at the children who are still singing the song.

As she speaks, she begins digging her fingers in the earth.

Ray stands over her.

Maggie lifts herself onto her knees and looks down into the

small hole she's dug. She picks up a little pine cone.

Maggie rises, dusting off her hands. She looks him in the

soul.

Ray just stares at her, struggling with what he's feeling,

what he's hearing. What he's supposed to be feeling. Silence

hangs between the two of them.

Maggie looks at him, considering. Then toward the long dark

silhouette of a mountain range across the plains.

While she looks off at Paha Sapa, Ray stares at her profile.

She looks at Ray with an ironic smile, and she catches him

transfixed.

Maggie starts giggling.

Maggie is laughing as she looks back at the children who are

no longer singing. Ray reaches inside his jacket and takes

out five polaroids. He shuffles them as he ponders. He hands

one to Maggie who has caught herself opening up too much to

the Wasi'cu.

Maggie looks at the first photo and says nothing. She hands

it back quickly. Ray won't take it.

Maggie ignores him. Ray studies her reaction.

Maggie is looking away. She picks a long blade of grass and

smoothes it in her hands.

Ray looks at her a moment longer then rises, dusting off his

jeans, and standing there. He thinks for a long moment,

pinches the bridge of his nose, then looks out at the Black

Hills, pensive.

Maggie watches him go. Looks away. Then watches him again.

Ray stops. She stands on the bluff, her hair riding the wind

and her eyes searing. And then her lips do something that

might qualify as half a smile. A sense of humor rising up

through anger. Survival humor.

Ray looks at her for a long moment. And then he walks on,

leaving her there.

INT. LE BARON - PARKED AT WOUNDED KNEE - DAY

Ray sits behind the wheel, going through files on his lap,

photographs of Indians. And thinking hard.

Ray looks out the window toward the monument.

Exhausted, Ray lays his head back on the seat, and lets a

long, constricted breath free. THUNDER ROLLS like the slow,

deep roar of some giant bear up in the hills. He opens his

eyes, looks out the window.

POV: rain is coming down, and Maggie is getting the children

into the back of her truck. She helps them get a tarp over

their heads. Then as Yellow Bird pulls himself into the cab

of the truck, she hefts the wheelchair and two boys load it

in.

She gets in, starts up, and rolls off down the sloping road.

EXT. LE BARON - WOUNDED KNEE  STRANGE TWILIGHT

Ray steps out of the car into the rain and closes the door.

He stares at the burial grounds. Then slowly, he starts toward

them as if magnetically drawn. HEARTBEAT DRUM.

A shroud of mist lays over the cemetery, growing thicker as

the rain falls harder. DRUM BEATS DEEPER. Ray is walking

toward the memorial, getting drenched. Then he hears something

strange. HOOFBEATS.

RAY'S POV:

coming down the dirt road, toward him, a HORSEMAN drives his

mount at a fast trot. The rider is only a vague image in the

mist, his face hidden. As he rides closer, we can make out a

shotgun in his hand. And he throws it up, takes aim.

REVERSE - RAY

paralyzed for a moment. And then going for his gun. But it's

not there. He's left it in the car. He breaks into a run.

But there's a shorter distance now between the horseman and

the car and Ray has no choice but to turn and flee.

His boots slap wet pavement, and his breath draws heavy and

desperate as he bounds off the road and races down a grassy

slope, looking over his shoulder, panicking.

His legs and arms churning, his face contorted. And then

someone passes him out, running just as hard. AN INDIAN WOMAN

in 1890 Winter rags, clutching a BABY to her breast and

CRYING. SCREAMING. Ray looks at her, incredulous as he runs.

But he keeps running.

The rider is right behind him. He FIRES. The GUNSHOT CRACKS

the sky like thunder. BOOOOM!

INT. LE BARON  TWILIGHT

Ray jumps awake. Cooch is POUNDING on the window. And the

three-legged dog inside is BARKING. Ray quickly rolls the

window down, letting in THUNDER.

Cooch starts to say something then takes note of Ray's peaked

face. Sweat runs down his temples, beads at his nose.

And Cooch runs to his car. Ray fires the car's big engine

and takes off behind Cooch who is driving a fed Chevy. CRAZY

HEARTBEAT DRUM INTO --

EXT. GRANDPA REACHES TRATLER - LATE DAY

The rain pelts Grandpa's little Airstream trailer, wind snaps

at sheet plastic in the windows. An ancient sewing wheel

CREAKS RUSTY in the wind.

Three clean, late-model fed cars pull down the muddy drive

as two SWAT vehicles pull in from another road. The Le Baron

pulls in, and Ray bails out with the others. When he sees

where he is, he looks distraught.

Agents are running behind junked cars, positioning themselves

around the trailer.

INT. GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER  LATE DAY

The holy man is sitting in his chair, smacking Flies with a

swatter. Tonight he wears a black reservation hat and stares

vacantly at the TV where RONALD MACDONALD swings a giant

baseball bat, and falls on his face, bouncing back up. And

then BOOM!

The door is open and Cooch leads Miles, Sherman and Ray

inside. Cooch has a gun on the old man.

The old man slowly removes his hat and hangs it on a knee.

Carefully he places his wrinkled hands on his thinning white

hair. His eyes seek out Ray who stands in the doorway, M-16

in hand, looking concerned. He stares at Ray.

Cooch storms into a back bedroom, Miles moves to a window.

Sherman stands over the old man.

Grandpa looks at Sherman, ignores him, looks back at Ray.

With RADIO TRANSMISSIONS crackling through the house, Cooch

comes back down the hall, and heads to the door.

Ray starts to follow but he sees Sherman pick something up

from near Grandpa. The 500 year-old turtleshell rattle.

Grandpa's eyes widen slightly.

Sherman drops the turtleshell rattle on the linoleum floor.

Then drives his heel into it, CRUSHING the fragile

turtleshell.

Ray grabs him and slams him into the tin wall. Miles gets

between them, grabbing Sherman.

They're out the door, leaving the old man to sit looking

down at the shattered rattle. He closes his eyes.

EXT. GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER

In a blizzard of rain, Jimmy Looks Twice in a cowboy shirt,

jeans and boots, leaps off the top of the Airstream, clutching

his medicine bundle. FLOODLIGHTS HIT him from all directions.

BULLHORNS screaming at him.

He tries to turn a corner and runs right into a fed. Ray,

having run out the back door has slammed right into him. He

has his rifle on him, and they stare each other down for a

split second before he is converged on. Guns at his back, at

his head.

He is swept off his feet, face down, and frisked. He looks

up at Ray, desperately.

Another fed, pushes his face into the mud, cuffs him behind

his back.

With two FIVE MAN SWAT TEAMS swarming the area, and six agents

pushing Jimmy toward a car, Cooch stands there in the pouring

rain, looking relieved. Ray stands near him, looking abhorred.

Ray watches Jimmy as he is shoved into the back of Miles and

Sherman's car and driven away. He is twisting around in his

seat to look at Ray. Desperately. The SWAT teams disband,

return to their vehicles.

Cooch heads to his car and Ray starts shuffling toward his

as if he is dared by it all. He is looking at the trailer

and there on the rickety porch is Grandpa. He comes down the

steps slowly, holding his hat on against the wind. He watches

the cars pulling out.

Ray walks over to him, looking sick.

And after a moment of locking gazes, he starts for his car,

Ray turns.

Ray frowns, disturbed by this story.

The old man is speaking with conviction. With power.

Ray stands, almost paralyzed, digesting this. He turns and

looks into the old man's sharp eyes. Grandpa has closed his

eyes, and as he is pulverized by the rain, he turns his face

toward it and from way down in his belly, he begins to SING

IN LAKOTA. And it is too much. Too weird. He wheels and

hurries to the car. Gets in, and beats a fast path out of

the old man's lonesome patch of land.

BLUE HEAT LIGHTNING knifes the sky. THUNDER ROLLS, and rumbles

into POOL BALLS --

EXT. BUFFALO BUTTE MOTEL AND BAR - LATE DAY

The agents have taken over both sides of the streets, gathered

in front of the bar and the motel, putting firearms into

cases, removing flak jackets.

POOL BALLS knock from inside the bar while outside, A DAKOTAN

takes a piss near a truck while his GIRLFRIEND stands at his

back, yelling at him. CHARLIE DANIELS sings country on the

juke Ray heads to room 13, starts unlocking the door. Cooch

comes up behind him.

Cooch throws a mock punch at Ray and he mock blocks, tired.

He musters a smile. But he isn't all there.

Ray nods. Cooch lets a few agents walk past, LAUGHING. He

speaks quietly.

Ray tries to break a smile again. Cooch cups his arm.

Cooch stares at Ray. The younger agent looks like he indeed

has a fever.

Cooch hurries across the rain-swept street. Ray steps inside

and closes the door.

INT. ROOM 13 - BUFFALO BUTTE MOTEL

Ray closes the door, and stands there. He seems to be having

trouble breathing. He looks down at his boots. There is

something on the floor. Something that has been slipped under

the door earlier. He just stares down at it. Then slowly

stoops.

CLOSE ON: the polaroid of the res car he gave to Maggie

earlier. She

has returned it. He turns it over. Written across the white

backing of the photo, in dark black marker is the name --

YELLOW BIRD.

Ray stares at this for a moment then hurries over to boxes

of files on the bed. He rummages like a nervous thief and

comes up with a folder. He flips through it, casting off

files and 302's and profiles and finally stopping on --

The 8x10 BLACK AND WHITE of Richard Yellow Bird seen earlier.

Sitting in his wheelchair, Red Power cap on, tattoos marring

big arms. And under it a DOUBLE MUG SHOT stamped LEAVENWORTH

PRISON. Under that ANOTHER PRISON MUG SHOT stamped SIOUX

FALLS PRISON. And under that a --

THIRD MUG SHOT stamped "PAROLED."

Ray, his eyes fixed on this one, takes a few steps and sits

on the end of the bed. He then stuffs the file back in a

box, and takes off toward the door.

EXT. RESERVATION ROAD - SUNSET

The Le Baron throws up loose rock and red dust, driving toward

a place where the sun begins a slow drop behind the Black

Hills. HORSES run out of the road. HEARTBEAT DRUM.

EXT. MULE DEER DISTRICT  RES - SUNSET

A tarpaper shack. Outhouse. Clothesline on which jerked meat

hangs. No cars. A lonely, unnerving place. Le Baron pulls

in. Ray gets out, adjusting the gun at the back of his

waistband. He starts for the shack. Ray raps a fist on the

splintered plywood door. Knocks again. He checks out a boarded-

up window. The door finally opens. Just a crack. Tiny black

eyes peer out into the fading light.

Ray sticks his open badge, gold eagle wings, near the crack.

The door closes. Then unlatches and opens. Yellow Bird sits

there in his wheelchair, tiny tobacco bundles in his lap.

He's been tying them.

He pivots his chair to allow Ray room to enter.

INT. YELLOW BIRD SHACK

Yellow Bird, in a T-shirt that reveals twenty different ink

tattoos, rolls himself across the warped floorboards to a

cheese crate where his eye glasses sit. He puts the thick

bifocals on and focuses resentfully on Ray in the ochre

flicker of the dirty room.

Ray walks across the room, his eyes on a covert mission.

Yellow Bird stares at Ray.

Yellow Bird looks at Ray, strangely, shaking his head. Ray

starts to look like maybe the game's not working. Like maybe

this doesn't add up. But --

Ray lets a tense breath out.

Ray sits in a busted chair, reaches down to his ankle holster

and pulls out a .38. He holds it, resting it on the arm of

the chair. He strains to look out through the boarded window.

Yellow Bird fidgets in his chair.

Yellow Bird stands. He takes a step forward. Limping. He's

got leg problems but he can walk. Heels first. And bowed.

But he can walk. He is shaking.

Yellow Bird wheels.

Ray is trying hard not to reveal his horror at this

confession, at this understanding of the machinery. He sits

there with his gun, blinking away sweat that beads at his

brow. Yellow Bird is weeping in a highpitched voice that

doesn't match his great bulk.

Ray grabs onto these words, rolls them silently on his lips

And now Yellow Bird is getting suspicious of the fed.

Ray snaps out his gun, straight-armed.

Yellow Bird jumps back, raising his hands.

And then HEADLIGHTS pierce the gaps in the boarded windows.

Yellow Bird collapses against the wall, bangs his head off

it. He lets a long, pained, cry escape from under his breath

and he begins a slow slide down the wall, to the floor.

Ray peers out the cracks in the boards.

Ray gets up, putting his gun away and heading to the door.

He stops and looks back at the Indian, sitting on the floor,

clutching his knees, staring into the kerosene flicker.

Yellow Bird looks at him, his glasses foggy, his face

contorted And Ray leaves.

EXT. YELLOW BIRD'S SHACK - NIGHT

Ray steps out into the falling night. There is a car parked

there. With a high aerial. Ray raises a hand in a slight

wave, walks on. At the fed car, A REGIONAL AGENT behind the

wheel, waves a hand. Watches Ray get into the Le Baron.

Ray gets in the car and takes off.

LE BARON - TRAVELING

Ray drives like a crazy man through the dark reservation.

Through miles of open land and strange rock formations. And

he looks trapped. HEADLIGHTS flicker in his rearview. He

sees this. Slams the gas pedal.

EXT. RES ROADS - NIGHT

The Le Baron races at 85 down the dirt stretch. A moment

later a car rattles by at 90.

INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING

Ray reaches over to the passenger seat and pulls up the M-

16. He lays it across his lap. Looks in the rearview again.

Then makes a sudden sharp turn.

He pulls off the road quickly, throwing up dust into the

already foggy night, the car goes out of control.

EXT. WOUNDED KNEE MEMORIAL - NIGHT

The car that was following drives right past the narrow layby,

hidden by grassy slopes and keeps flying down the long

stretch.

INT. LE BARON

Ray skids through the dirt, trying to stop -- he can't --

and the Le Baron fishtails, smashing into a chain-link fence.

And coming to a stop.

Breathing as if he's been running not driving, Ray looks

behind him to make sure he lost the car. He did. When he

turns back to his wheel, he sees --

THROUGH THE CHAINLINK FENCE

lit by his headlights: THE WOUNDED KNEE gravesite. He is

right up on the arch, and the tall stone marker beyond it.

EXT. WOUNDED KNEE MEMORIAL - NIGHT

The Le Baron just sits parked, headlights making the night

fog crawl up from the base of the old tomb, along the fence.

The driver's door opens slowly. And Ray steps out. He walks

through the arch. Into the small fenced area. Up to the stone

which is overgrown with stubborn weeds, half-hidden in mist.

Ray studies the tomb.

POV: THE NAMES ON THE STONE ARE CHISELED VERTICALLY:

CHIEF STANDING BEAR

MR. HIGH HAWK

AFRAID OF BEAR

Weeds are grown up over the rest of the names. Ray's hands

clear them, grab at them and rip them away from more names:

PRETTY HAWK

BLUE AMERICAN

SHERMAN HORN CLOUD

With frantic abandon, Ray is ripping weeds away. He drops to

his knees, clearing weeds.

STRONG FOX

THUNDER HEART

MOVING DOWN and then suddenly back up to the name:

THUNDER HEART

REVERSE ON - RAY

kneeling in the weeds, the wind getting restless around him,

screaming the way plains winds do but only these winds are

filled with a whistling. What sounds like EAGLE BONE WHISTLES,

piping shrill.

Ray kneels before the marker, staring at the name on the

stone, his hair thrown around by the wind that drives across

the grass, whistling eagles, building to an unbearable, pitch.

Ray stares at the name as if he is looking through a small

hole into another world. A world that frightens him. He gets

up and backs away from the stone, through the gate. And gets

back in his car, quickly. He takes off.

EXT. MAGGIE EAGLE BEAR'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The little home on the river. Dark. Empty. Ray runs up the

steps, pounds at the door. No answer. Pounds again.

He keeps knocking. Nothing. He hurries back down the steps,

starts around the back of the house and something attacks

him, leaps at him from the dark, knocking him off his feet,

into the grass. Hits him again.

But as quickly as he falls, he rolls, throwing up his hands

and blocking a savage kick aimed for his face. He traps the

boot, twists it and drops the attacker onto his back. In a

matter of seconds, he is on top of the man, sticking his gun

in his throat. He grabs a flashlight from his jacket and

shines it in the man's face.

Crow Horse. Breathing like a wild animal.

Crow Horse lies there, breathing heavy. Ray on top of him,

still clutching his gun.

INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING - NIGHT

Ray and Crow Horse are quiet as they eat up the dirt roads.

Ray nods, concentrating. After a time:

When Crow Horse doesn't respond, Ray looks over and finds

him staring. He looks back to the road. And when he looks

back at Crow Horse, he is still staring at him.

Crow Horse looks out the window as if to avoid Ray who is

confused by the Indian's smoldering. After a moment, Crow

Horse looks at him.

Crow Horse feels better. He looks out the window, nodding.

But it doesn't last long.

Ray brakes. Crow Horse is looking past him. Ray turns. The

spectacular mesa that we have admired with every sunrise,

looms massive now that we are under it. Moonlight falls on

it. And the HEARTBEAT DRUM pulses from it.

EXT. WHERE-THE-ELK-PEOPLE-USED-TO-LIVE - NIGHT

The land behind Red Deer Table is Badlands. Badlands pierced

by a few rutted old wagon roads. At a place between two

grotesque buttes, Crow Horse stops, looking uneasy.

He digs into his pocket, pulls out some loose tobacco and

spills it on the ground. Then he walks on.

Ray observes this, starting forward, then stopping long enough

to fish a cigarette out from his pocket and drop it next to

Crow Horse's offering.

THROUGH THE BADLANDS

Ray and Crow Horse walk, carefully under a full moon, scanning

the area. Crow Horse stops, checks out some tracks. Ray walks

on, looking up at the table. He shines his flashlight up and

it illuminates --

A RED RIBBON, tied on stakes on a ridge. Ten stakes. Twenty

stakes. Ribbons blowing in the wind.

Ray sweeps the light along, walking faster, and then something

frightening occurs. Something... some unseen thing snags him

by the leg, sucking him into the Earth with a horrible GUSHING

SOUND.

Ray is drawn into a hole up to his hips, a bluish-black slime,

oozing out around him. Crow Horse grabs him, struggling to

pull him up. He does, stumbling back and stepping into a

hole himself.

The two men are wheeling, throwing flashlight beams around,

slapping through a wet jelly, and finally getting their

bearings.

Ray touches the ground where a blue-black chemical solution

oozes out with water from the aquifer below. His flashlight

scans --

TWENTY DRILLED HOLES IN THE EARTH. A uranium strip-mining

grid laid out in a 50 x 60 pattern. The far side is fenced

by flagged stakes.

Ray goes to another hole and sticks his arm in up to the

elbow, sniffs the solution.

Ray is looking past Crow Horse at --

Something strange in the moonlight. COYOTES. Some forty yards

away, on a flat stretch of stoney ground. Six Coyotes, dancing

in the shadows of rock formations. MOVING IN ON THEM as Ray

walks forward, they circle... scatter... run back... circle

again. Look straight at Ray, eyes glowing.

And run.

REVERSE - RAY

and Crow Horse walk toward them. To the place they just left.

A place in the dirt, they were digging up. When they reach

it, they stare down into the dirt.

A BODY

lies there, face down. Denim jacket and a shock of black

hair, thrown into tangles and dirt. It was buried. Until the

coyote caught wind. Crow Horse bends down, touches the

jacket... turns the body over And almost vomits when he sees

Maggie Eagle Bear.

RAY

looks down in disbelief.

Ray steps back, his boots squishing in solution and sealant

and soiled water. He covers his mouth, stopping himself from

getting sick. And then he explodes, YELLING.

LONG SHOT - RED DEER TABLE

in the moonlight. And RAY'S YELLING ECHOING up out of the

rocks

EXT. BEAR CREEK VILLAGE - NIGHT

The sordid little village the feds first drove through sits

sleepy on the rim of sunrise.

A DOG BARKS hollow as the Crow Horse motorcycle chutters

down and coasts up in front of one of the little homes --

rundown but it has a satellite dish and a decent car like so

many. The Le Baron pulls up behind it.

INT. LE BARON - NIGHT

Crow Horse walks over to Ray's window, his jeans and boots

muddy. No one speaks for a long moment, the night filled by

crickets. And that one dog.

Crow Horse crosses the street. Ray sits there, and he looks

almost hurt by this statement. But he is the white man. But

he is Indian. He lets a long breath escape, rubs at a temple.

He takes out a smoke. Tries to light it. His hands are shaking

too badly. But he gets it lit, and sits tense, looking in

his rearview.

INT. CLEAR MOON HOUSE - NIGHT

Oliver Clear Moon sits in a chair, his strong Indian mouth,

beginning to tighten at the jowls.

Across from him, Crow Horse sits on the edge of a couch.

MRS. CLEAR MOON, a rotund, gentle woman brings him a coffee.

A TEENAGE GIRL in a men's extra-large T-shirt stands in the

hall, looking at him.

Clear Moon in pajamas, rises, and with a coffee in hand,

starts walking in slow steps toward the kitchen. He loses

control before he gets there and hurls the cup across the

room into the sink, smashing it. He wheels and faces Crow

Horse. He SPEAKS LAKOTA. Asking questions. Crow Horse SPEAKS

LAKOTA. Answering him.

Mrs. Clear Moon, understanding, shakes her head in disbelief

and her eyes begin to well. Oliver, walking back to his chair,

sits, and thinks for a moment. MORE LAKOTA. He gets up, goes

to a drawer and rummages. He sits again, and tosses something

onto the coffee table. It is a badge. A tribal police badge.

INT. LE BARON - PARKED - CLEAR MOON'S - DAWN

Ray nervously awaits Crow Horse's words as he appears at the

window again. The Indian shows hope in his tired eyes.

Crow Horse looks at Ray who stares dead ahead.

EXT. YELLOW BIRD'S SHACK - RES - DAWN

The shack is just as Ray left it earlier, kerosene flickers

dancing yellow through the gapped boards. Ray and Crow Horse

with guns drawn, approach the front door.

Crow Horse snakes around toward the rear of the shack.

Ray knocks at the front door. It is unlatched and it creaks

open a little. Ray pushes it open and sees --

INT. YELLOW BIRD SHACK

An empty wheelchair.

EXT. YELLOW BIRD SHACK

Ray steps away from the door, looking around the vast plains

as the sun comes up out of the Black Hills. He is roadblocked,

and it shows in his eyes. It's all getting too big.

Crow Horse leans against the shack, watching Ray. And then

RADIO STATIC from inside the Le Baron. Ray pivots and stares

at it as if someone is inside the car. His call signal is

being paged. But he just stands there, looking at it.

Ray reaches inside the car and lifts the handset. He takes a

breath before pressing it to his lips.

Ray looks at Crow Horse who looks equally spooked. The agent

clears his throat.

A long, unnerving pause. No response from the other side.

Ray holds the handset down at his side, looking over the top

of the car toward the Black Hills.

Ray swings in behind the wheel, starts the car, and barrels

off recklessly down the rutted road, leaving Crow Horse

behind.

The Le Baron is already out to where sight reaches farther

than sound and silent white dust mushrooms skyward.

EXT. BUFFALO BUTTE MOTEL - MORNING

A RAVEN is sentinel on a telephone wire that crosses the

road from the bar to motel. A few trucks remain parked in

front of the joint.

Ray approaches room 13, looking shell-shocked. His boots

leave blue mud prints all the way to the door. He unlocks

it.

INT. BUFFALO BUTTE MOTEL - ROOM

Ray has cast off his field clothes and is halfway into one

of his cleaner suits. He looks haggard but still buoyant,

his eyes piercing. The connecting door creaks open and Cooch

walks in. The SAC is freshly showered and he is fidgeting

with a Windsor knot. He studies his number two man, says

nothing for a moment but is obviously holding something down.

His face is a red hue.

Ray looks at Cooch. When he speaks, his voice is dry.

Cooch crosses the room, and picks up Ray's jeans which look

like they went through a sandlot tackle match in a mud hole.

Ray tucks his clean shirt in; watching Cooch.

Cooch walks up to Ray slowly and takes his face in his hand,

turning it toward lamp light to study the bruise along his

left eye, a residual from a Crow Horse hook.

Ray nods, and Cooch slowly breaks a smile. An insecure smile

but a smile just the same. He starts to laugh.

Cooch laughs in amusement and Ray's face crinkles into a

grin as he lowers his eyes, wiping a paper towel over his

face. And then, suddenly, Ray lunges at Cooch.

He slams the Agent in Charge against the hollow wall, and

holds him there. His eyes wild.

Cooch is stunned.

Cooch suddenly explodes, throwing Ray off of him and sending

him reeling back against the sink. He points a finger at his

charge.

Cooch's eyes go frighteningly cold. He can't believe what

he's hearing.

Ray says nothing. He just stands there, against the sink,

breathing like a fighter against the turnbuckle.

Ray turns to the sink, turns the faucet on to get some water

on his face. The water only trickles into the basin.

Ray leans on the sink, watching the water start to spurt

free. He shuts it off. Turns to look at Cooch. And it is

then the door opens -- some knocking after the door is already

opened -- and SA Miles enters.

Ray doesn't turn from the sink.

EXT. RESERVATION ROAD - TOWARD GRANDPA REACHES - MORNING

Crow Horse chugs along on his motorbike toward the council,

his long hair and eagle feather trailing in the wind.

EXT. BUFFALO BUTTE MOTEL - MORNING

Two federal vehicles are waiting in front of Cooch's Chevy

and Ray's Le Baron. One is an FBI van where Sherman helps

THREE AGENTS load file boxes and computers.

Cooch walks with Ray toward the Le Baron, looking at him as

the go. Ray looks better as he breathes the morning air. As

they pass the second fed car, the back window power glides

down, and someone looks out with a friendly smile.

Ray stops dead. Beholds the Tribal President who wears a

western cut jacket and a strained expression behind his smile.

He hole a hand out to Ray.

Ray stares at him, speechless. Horrified. What is he doing

here? What about the council fire? Ray somehow nods. Then

walks on to the Le Baron. Cooch gets behind the wheel of the

car that Clear Moon sits in. Clear Moon's eyes follow Ray to

the car.

EXT. RES ROAD - TO GRANDPA REACHES

Crow Horse guns past a little shack. As he does, he looks in

his side mirror then out across the grasslands. Then quickly

IN HIS MIRROR: a car has pulled out from behind the shack.

CROW HORSE observes this. Then twists the fuel throttle hard.

INT. LE BARON

Ray gets behind the wheel, looks at his watch. He is

panicking. He starts the car, reverses, slams into drive.

RAYS POV: swerving and reckless as he races forward. Sherman,

walking around to one of the cars has to run out of the way.

The other agents clear out, looking in confusion as Ray cuts

a hard U -- sweeps PAST THE BAR, SMASHES INTO AND THROUGH

the old hitching post -- and HEADS TOWARD the reservation

which lies vast before him.

EXT. BUFFALO BUTTE MOTEL

With agents scrambling about, looking after the car, Cooch

gets out, looking into the dust Ray left behind. HEARTBEAT

DRUM.

Sherman appears beside Cooch aiming a questioning look. When

Cooch quickly gets back behind the wheel, Sherman pulls his

radio up and starts yelling into it.

Cooch reaches out the window and grabs his radio arm.

And Cooch squeals out with a petrified Clear Moon in the

backseat, inquiring nervously.

EXT. ROAD TO GRANDPA REACHES

Crow Horse passes by an abandoned horse trailer. When he

does, another car pulls out. And follows. The first car passes

by.

Crow Horse sees he's being followed. He cranks his throttle

and the engine grinds then dies. He heels his kickstart on

the fly, and keeps it alive. But his old horse is no match

for the big engines coming up fast behind him.

INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING

Ray is leaving little transitional developments and trailers

behind. His eyes bore into the road before him, looking for

a sign of Crow Horse, and in the rearview for a sign of his

FBI mentor.

EXT. ROAD TO GRANDPA REACHES - BADLANDS

Crow Horse has the throttle open. But the two cars are coming

up on both sides, trying to sandwich him. To his right the

Badlands loom deep, a drop into a caliche netherworld of

jagged rock.

He throws the bike right, trying to ride the thin ribbon of

shoulder.

THE FIRST CAR

floors it, and swipes him, and the bike goes over the edge,

launched into --

THE BADLANDS

where it does a violent triple flip, throwing Crow Horse

then smashing into a tent shaped dune.

A RIFLE

sticks out from a window and punches the Badlands with THREE

SHOTS.

EXT. ROAD TO GRANDPA REACHES

The Le Baron rifles past the abandoned horse trailer. Black

smoke drifts in a wind ahead.

Ray veers onto the shoulder, barely gets the car in park

before bailing and running wildly down into the Badlands.

EXT. BADLANDS

Ray runs, stumbles through the rock and gypsum, searching

the area. He runs around the burning motorcycle, looking

left and right.

CROW HORSE

lies on his back in the Badlands, eyes open, fixed unmoving

on the sky. Ray comes out of the flame-waves, running with

his .45 held high. He throws himself to his knees beside the

injured Indian.

Crow Horse rolls his eyes toward the FBI agent. He has a

gash behind his ear, and pink sand clings to the blood. He

lifts his head, tries to form words.

Ray gets an arm under the big Indian, helps him up out of a

jagged crevice.

EXT. RESERVATION ROAD

Cooch's car speeds down the stretch. Followed by Sherman's.

The FBI van. All at one-hundred and five. Gravel and dirt

flies.

INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING

With Crow Horse half-passed out in the passenger seat, Ray

keeps the wheel steady. And then his RADIO STATICS.

Ray just stares down at the radio, keeps the pedal floored.

The throws the wheel left.

EXT. GRANDPA REACHES TRAILER

The Le Baron fish-tails in a cloud of dust and Ray leaps out

of the car, runs toward the little trailer, gun in hand. The

windows are all busted, and the door is wide open. Ray runs

in. Then straight back out, shaking his head to Crow Horse.

Crow Horse hangs his head out the passenger window.

Ray starts to get back in then hesitates. He looks out across

the plains to see --

THREE FED CARS in the distance, fast approaching, dust rising.

Ray gets in quickly.

EXT. RESERVATION EXIT

Cooch's car is parked in a roadblock. Clear Moon stands near

him, and addresses UNIFORMED TRIBAL POLICE as they spill out

from a van, carrying rifles and shotguns.

Cooch has torn his tie away, his shirt is open, and he is

sweat soaked. Miles gets out of a car that pulls up.

And Cooch gets back in the car, drives off.

INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING

With Ray driving like a maniac, Crow Horse is turned around

in his seat, watching the federal cars spreading out, the

chopper moving in.

Crow Horse looks at him.

Ray and Crow Horse exchange a look.

Ray picks up the mic as he cranes to keep an eye on the

rearview.

Ray takes the mic and for some reason, he's putting it inside

his jacket near his shoulder where he keeps his leather.

Crow Horse looks at him, puzzled. And then the sound comes

forth, the static crackling of a micro-cassette recorder.

Ray keeps the tape running into the radio as he drives through

rugged Badlands. Crow Horse, stunned by the voice, eyes Ray

as the tape rolls.

INT. CHEVY - TRAVELING

Cooch and Clear Moon stare in horror at the radio.

Cooch is shaking his head in vitrified disbelief. He slams

the pedal almost through the floor.

INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING

The tape ends and Ray now lifts the mic to his mouth.

And he too, buries the accelerator.

EXT. BADLANDS ROAD  TO THE STRONGHOLD

The Le Baron burns forward and we SWEEP UP TO A MIND-BLOWING

AERIAL VIEW of the Badlands as four fed cars spread out in

formation, following.

INT. LE BARON - TRAVELING

Crow Horse is turned around, looking at the pursuit.

Crow Horse turns, sees what Ray is looking at.

POV: The Stronghold -- a narrow opening in hulking rock

formations. Large enough for a car to get in, and keep

followers out.

just ahead, the earth is gone. A wavering heat pond turns

out to be a crevice and they nose down into it, burying the

front end in sand and rock. WINDSHIELD SHATTERS.

EXT. THE STRONGHOLD

The Le Baron is stuck, wheels spinning out. Ray and Cooch

bail. Guns drawn, they start running for the Stronghold.

AT THE EDGE OF THE ARROYO

the caravan slides in recklessly, two of the fed cars coming

dangerously close to going over the edge. The regional

officers and six Clear Moon goons empty out, running down

the dip, rifles and shotguns ready.

Three more field agents come down from another direction,

followed by Cooch. Sherman hands a bullhorn to him.

The sound of FIFTEEN PRIMING FIREARMS stops Ray and Crow

Horse in their tracks. Just twenty feet from The Stronghold.

Crow Horse, windless, stumbles to a knee. Ray turns slowly,

facing the small army.

Crow Horse, rises, sucking wind, and ditches his gun in the

Badlands. Ray holds onto his .45 a moment longer. Then drops

it. He stares at --

THE WALL OF MEN

Cooch, SA Miles, SA Sherman, Six regional officers, six Clear

Moon goons. And now, coming out of the backseat of Cooch's

Chevy, Oliver Clear Moon, walking tentatively, cautiously.

Cooch lowers the bullhorn. He takes the opportunity to stare

at Ray. To let Ray stare at him. The older agent looks broken.

AT THE STRONGHOLD ENTRANCE

Crow Horse lowers himself to a knee then lies face down. Ray

just stands there, the wind against him.

Ray refuses to move.

COOCH

sweating, tries to keep control. All around him, hands are

on guns. Cooch is walking toward Ray.

Cooch walks toward him, a gun hanging at one side, bullhorn

at the other. The agents behind him, around him, all raise

rifles, all take aim.

Sherman, looking sick, gets to a knee and sets aim. The sound

of clacking steel, all around. But Cooch seems disturbed by

the sound. Because its coming from above. He raises an eye

from the rifle sight to see --

ALONG THE EDGE OF THE BUTTE

FIFTEEN INDIANS, training rifles and shotguns down below.

SHERMAN

looks up from his rifle, bewildered. Then alarmed.

ALONG THE EDGE OF THE BUTTE

We PAN across fifteen Indians -- old people, women, kids.

Their weapons are weak but many.

And at the end of the row, Maisy Blue Legs rises, clutching

a rifle. And PAST HER, ANOTHER. TRADITIONAL PEOPLE, many

from the trading post porch, rise to the edge, armed. Silent.

Twenty, twenty-five, thirty traditionals, forming a line

along the ridge, a line that runs in a circle, broken by the

Stronghold entrance, then starting again on the next butte.

Thirty-five, forty of them. And more, standing along the

opposite craggy rock, some wearing tractor caps, some cowboy

hats, some just long hair blowing in the wind. Fifty, sixty,

SEVENTY-FIVE RESERVATION PEOPLE forming a circle on the rocks;

it's Little Big Horn revisited. A fourteen year-old boy

struggles to keep a huge shotgun at his shoulder.

DOWN BELOW

Clear Moon's mouth is as dry as Badlands soil. Cooch is

panicking, his eyes running along the high edge.

RAY

stands equally astonished, assessing the back-up.

CROW HORSE

lifts himself, stands, taking in the sight.

AT THE EDGE OF THE BUTTE

stepping stiffly but steadily through the line of armed

locals, pushing his way to the very edge so as to look down,

Grandpa Sam Reaches. The wind makes feathery tails out of

his long thinning strips of white hair.

DOWN BELOW

Ray looks up at the old man, then turns to face Cooch.

Cooch slowly, lets the bullhorn fall. Then the rifle. He

looks back at Sherman who does the same, and all the way

down the line, everyone dropping their arms under the threat

of a lot more guns from above. And now Ray walks forward,

collecting his gun. Anderson Chasing Hawk, one of the

Warriors, runs down to Ray, breathless.

Ray notices that Cooch is staring at him, hard. He shakes

his head slowly. Strongly.

Chasing Hawk takes off, running, and Cooch watches in

consternation. Ray just stands eye to eye with him, holding

his ground.

UP TO ARIEL VIEW - OVER STRONGHOLD

And along the ridge, Grandpa and the locals don't budge,

watching every move.

CLIMBING HIGHER, we rise above the circle of proud Sioux to

see, on the inside of the Stronghold, thirty old trucks and

res cars.

CLIMBING HIGHER into and through the fast-moving clouds that

the Lakota call The Grandfathers as the HEARTBEAT DRUM and

LAKOTA SINGERS takes over all sound.

EXT. BEAR CREEK RESERVATION - MAIN SETTLEMENT - LATER

The HIGH WINDS of THREE MEDIA HELICOPTERS are delighting a

storm of Indian children and BARKING DOGS, running through

the streets past junked cars on blocks.

Over on a little plot of grass and dirt, a pair of hands are

digging a small hole. Ray lays a pine cone in the hole and

looks down at it for a moment... before hand-plowing the

dirt back over it and patting it flat. He rises, knocking

dirt off his knees and hands.

Crow Horse walks over, bandaged and favoring wounds, and Ray

falls in with him, walking down the middle of the village

road. His eyes are tired. But hopeful.

Ray nods, encouraged as they walk along. His eyes follow the

helicopters.

They reach the dusty, dented Le Baron and stand there, looking

at each other.

Crow Horse offers a hand to Ray. He takes it in a white man's

shake then follows Walter's cue into the Indian "allies"

grip and slap. They hold it there, looking into each other's

eyes.

Ray ponders for a moment.

Ray shrugs. Crow Horse discreetly gestures below his belt.

Ray cracks a smile, a long time coming.

Ray stands looking at him, searching for words.

Ray goes to get in his car. But he sees someone sitting across

the street on the trading post porch. The old man.

Ray considers him for a moment then walks over. They lock

eyes. Grandpa stares at Ray as if he's never seen him before,

and then arcs a brow. He touches his sleeve at the wrist.

Ray rolls his sleeve back to reveal his Rolex. Grandpa smiles

and Ray strips it off. He hands it to the old man and his

face crinkles into caliche earth.

Grandpa holds the watch up in the light, admires it then

puts it in his shirt pocket. He moves a flat hand through

the air in the "done deal" sign language. Ray, a little

surprised that he gets nothing in the trade, returns the

smile and walks away.

He gets to his car and wipes away two inches of dust from

the broken windshield.

INT. LE BARON

After THREE TRIES, he gets the engine started. He pulls his

gun off his waistband, goes to lay it on the passenger seat

and finds something there.

Grandpa's sacred caanunpa. The Pipe. Symbol of truth. Ray

looks out the window at the old man who is watching him with

those sharp black eyes. Ray lifts his hand, holds it flat,

and does the Sioux done deal sign.

EXT. BEAR CREEK RESERVATION - DAY

The Le Baron eats up the dirt road at a moderate, gravel

crunching pace. It slows as it passes Maggie Eagle Bear's

quiet home on the river. Children walk with the old woman,

carrying buckets from the river.

The Le Baron slows to a crawl, then drives on.

THE TRADING POST PORCH

where the elders sit, watching the dust blow.

CROW HORSE walking off down the road. He stops, and looks

over his shoulder, trying to glimpse the distance.

THE LE BARON driving off the res, under big sky as it ascends

a rough hill, waddles through potholes, negotiates with some

horses in the road and rolls on toward the reservation line

where the sun throws shadows that look like an old man

dancing.

AT THE PLACE IN THE ROAD

where West goes to Rapid City, and East back to Bear Creek,

Ray stops like the bullet-punched sign orders. He doesn't go

West. Doesn't go East. He sits there. Fishes a smoke out

from a pocket, clicks a lighter, and fires up. He sits there,

smoking.

Deliberating.

SUDDEN CUT TO BLACK.

And after a long silent beat, A DRUM. Like a heart.

END CREDITS.

