Behind him we can see the breast-feeding MOTHER. She's

dead, a bullet hole in the centre of her forehead from the

ricochet. The baby continues to suckle on, undisturbed.

Through the cafe window we can see a MAN, partly obscured

by the crowd in front of us, the only man still seated. He

lights a cigarette.

CLOSE ON THE LIGHTER as he replaces it. We can make out an

inscription: "To George, from Ann. All my love."

In the Galeria the KGB Man continues to bellow at the

Waiter. The baby begins to WAIL.

A bird's eye view of the Circus.

A woman, CONNIE SACHS, a face that's seen it all, leans

against a wall, smoking. A middle-aged woman, one of the

secretaries or "MOTHERS" walks past, pushing a trolley of

documents. She nods at Connie mournfully. Connie looks

stricken. The Mother walks on into...

A long conference table. We are looking at an ELDERLY MAN

at the head of the table. He's sitting on a rather ornate

carving chair - a little like a throne - and he looks ill.

He is signing documents, his signature a simple "C,"

scrawled in GREEN INK, aware all eyes are on him. A

cigarette burns away in an already loaded ashtray.

This is the head of the Circus - known as CONTROL.

Around him are four lieutenants - the inner circle of the

intelligence service - PERCY ALLELINE, TOBY ESTERHASE, ROY

BLAND and BILL HAYDON.

Beside him, his right-hand man - GEORGE SMILEY.

From the thick and embarrassed atmosphere we might guess we

are at the end of a coup, the final ousting of a King. All

we hear is the ticking of a loud clock and the scratch of

the pen.

Smiley looks up to find Alleline's gaze fixed on him.

Alleline quickly looks down at his hands.

- Roy Bland - heavy set and moustached, flicking a guilty

- Toby Esterhase - immaculate hair and suit, eyes on

Alleline and the Lieutenants are waiting for them. A

horribly awkward moment. Toby pulls open the cage lift

doors for them, as if to hasten the eviction. Haydon looks

at him with contempt.

Control sweeps past them and the lift, determined to walk

every step of the way. Smiley follows.

Control and Smiley, begin their descent through the rigid

hierarchy of the Circus. As we TRACK with them, we see that

each floor is its own WORLD. The two men walk past the

fourth floor REGISTRY - the vast archive of intelligence,

staffed by RESEARCHERS.

Smiley and Control pass down another flight and along the

third floor - INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS - heads poking out of

offices, amongst them JERRY WESTERBY.

Down to the second floor - SCALPHUNTERS - the muscle of the

Circus. The boredom of an air-port lounge, a sunken sofa

and pool-table. The Scalphunters watching them go in

respectful silence.

On down to the first floor TYPING POOL - staffed by pretty

young society girls - the DEBS - who watch open-mouthed, as

their Chief passes them for the last time. And finally

down to...

An ancient doorman - BRYANT - feeling the moment must be

marked in some way - leaves his sentry box and opens the

main door for Control. Control acknowledges the salute with

a flick of his eyes and we push through the doors...

Alleline and Bland stand smoking, watching Control and

Smiley emerge onto the pavement.

CONTROL and SMILEY stand on the street. They stare at each

other for a moment. This is goodbye. They shake hands.

Perhaps there's a little reserve in Control's manner, a

lack of warmth. From the expression on Smiley's face we see

that he is pained by this.

Control puts his collar up and walks away. Smiley stands

forlornly as Control disappears into the crowd.

TITLES OVER A MONTAGE

THE WATER OF THE POND - still, glassy.

A MAN'S head breaks the surface - Smiley swimming through

his retirement.

He takes a breath and submerges again. Beyond him we see a

straggled diagonal line of elderly heads, bobbing through

the water.

Smiley dries himself under the trees, pink and raw in the

cold fresh air. He smooths his hair down, feeling a little

less ridiculous. He looks over to where a VERY ELDERLY

SWIMMER is being helped into the water - little more than

trembling bones.

Is this his world now?

A MOTHER unloads a stack of files from a LIFT shaft and

places them into her wheeled safe. A piece of CHRISTMAS

TINSEL is wound along the trolley. We track with her

through the HIVE-LIKE atmosphere of the fifth floor, behind

her the conference room - a glimpse of Alleline in

Control's chair, surrounded by his lieutenants - smoke and

whiskey - engaged in the business of the world.

She pushes on into Alleline's OFFICE - loads the new files

into the LARGE SAFE there, locks and spins the combination.

Smiley stands frying an egg in his small kitchen.

Smiley sits eating his solitary lunch, reading a volume of

Grimmelshausen. He turns a page, examines the illustration

of a knight and a dragon - holds it at arms length, trying

to focus on it.

Tracking with the BRIEFCASE as it is carried towards the

house...

An elderly lady - MRS McCRAIG - stands at the sink. Through

the window she catches a glimpse of the Mystery Man's legs

passing, the briefcase in his hand as he walks up the steps

towards the front door. Calmly she dries her hands as the

doorbell rings and her DOG begins to bark furiously.

Mrs McCraig opens the door and the figure passes her and

the barking dog without a word and begins to walk up the

stairs...

Smiley adds a LETTER to a pile on the mantelpiece. We see

the letters are all addressed to ANN SMILEY.

He straightens up, finds himself staring at a PAINTING on

the wall - a muddy abstract.

The room is almost bare - two chairs at a small table on

which stands two desk lamps and a CAMERA. The Mystery Man

has crossed to the wall by the window and opens the GRILL

on an AIR DUCT.

From across the street a tall good-looking man - POLYAKOV -

watches as the opened duct spills a star pattern of light

out into the night air. He walks towards the house...

The Mystery man settles at the table, sorting through the

contents of the briefcase as, from down below, we hear the

sound of the door bell, the dog barking and footsteps on

the stairs. Polyakov walks into the room and joins the

Mystery Man at the small table. He picks up the camera with

a smile.

He gives an uncomfortable bark of laughter.

If possible, Lacon looks even more shaken.

PULLING OLIVER LACON as he leads Smiley and Guillam down

the hall, gesturing for his WIFE to take Jackie away. He

attempts some social niceties, but his tone is strained.

They reach a large room, minimalist apart from a grand piano

framed by vast glass windows. A tall, well built young man -

FAWN - stands on guard. Lacon gestures to him and Fawn opens

the french windows and he and Guillam walk out onto the

terrace beyond.

Behind them, unnoticed, young JACKIE creeps back into the

room and slips behind the sofa.

Fawn closes the french doors behind him and Lacon is suddenly

all business.

Lacon lights a cigarette, smokes a moment, building up to

something. Smiley waits him out. The room has become very

still.

Smiley absorbs this. The moment is suddenly broken by a few

stray notes from the piano. The two jump slightly and turn to

where Jackie sits at the keyboard, smiling triumphantly.

Smiley and Lacon stand on the terrace alone. Lacon glances

anxiously at Smiley, trying to read him.

He controls himself.

Lacon exhales, his relief palpable.

He glances back at Guillam and Lacon's daughter, picking out

a melody on the grand piano.

We hear the piano playing on as we...

... driving through suburban DAGENHAM. We pull up in front

of a neat Tudor semi.

CLOSE ON A COLONY OF BEES

GLOVED HANDS loading a COLONY OF BEES into a new HIVE.

An APIARIST, in protective hat and gloves, turns to examine

the MAN who has appeared in his back yard - GEORGE SMILEY.

Smiley raises a hand.

The Apiarist steps away from the hive and removes his hat

to reveal a long thin face, keen eyes - INSPECTOR MENDEL.

Mendel, now in an overcoat and carrying a battered

briefcase, climbs into the back of the car with a nod to

Smiley and Guillam in the front. He begins to roll a

cigarette as Guillam drives away.

A stow-away BEE appears from somewhere and begins to buzz

around the car. Guillam and Mendel swat at it clumsily.

Smiley stares ahead in silence. He winds down the window

and the bee flies to safety.

A shabby rooming house, near Paddington station.

A large, faded floral monstrosity of a room. TWO single

beds, a large leather CHAIR, a WIRELESS.

Smiley's new landlady MRS POPE GRAHAM is supervising a

gormless teenager - NORMAN - who is struggling into the

room with a rickety card table. Mendel and Guillam take it

from him and set it into the room. From the next room comes

the unmistakable sounds of someone having sex.

She gives the table a sentimental tap, raising her voice a

little to drown out the excesses from the room next door.

She glances at Smiley who has his back to her looking out

into the London street.

SMILEY'S P.O.V.

... looking out at rooftops opposite and a travel agents

sign which reads THE WIDE WORLD.

And they leave. A small silence...

CLOSE on Smiley as his eyes flickers at the name.

Guillam and Smiley approach outside a red-brick mansion

block of flats in West London.

Smiley and Guillam reach a flat near the shadowy top of the

building. Smiley studies the door. He runs his fingers over

the door-frame and there it is - a little WEDGE at the top.

Guillam, followed by Smiley, pushes in against a mound of

dead mail.

They advance cautiously into the dirty flat, the windows

fogged out with Windowlene.

THEIR P.O.V. - TRACKING TOWARDS THE DOOR

Guillam has reached the DOOR and disappears into the room

beyond...

A green velvet armchair sits at the centre of a room.

Beside it an ashtray over-loaded with stubs.

The rest of the room is mounded with PILES AND PILES OF

PAPERS - files, document boxes, maps and charts, something

insane in the sprawl of it all.

Guillam stands with his back to us staring at a CHESS SET

laid out before the chair, as if in mid-game. Four of the

chess pieces have had PHOTOGRAPHS of FACES added to them -

ROY BLAND. TOBY ESTERHASE. PERCY ALLELINE. BILL HAYDON -

all wearing paper PARTY HATS. The effect is ridiculous and

a little disturbing, like some Surrealist objet d'art.

Guillam hears Smiley and turns, almost guiltily, and as he

moves we see there is a FIFTH PHOTOGRAPH on a piece - and

it is of Smiley himself.

Smiley stares at his image.

Toby Esterhase is on the telephone, speaking softly in

Hungarian. A look crosses his face. He suddenly notices

Haydon in the doorway, cup of tea in hand. Esterhase asks the

caller to hold and places the handset on the desk.

Toby's eyes flicker toward the handset.

Bill leaves, and Toby resumes the call.

Alleline stands on the rooftop, staring out over the London

skyline, his expression ambiguous - perhaps obscurely

troubled to have found himself at the top. He becomes aware

of Roy Bland standing behind him.

Alleline continues to stare out over the world, but allows

himself a small smile of triumph - and relief.

Mendel and Guillam carry in boxes, each overflowing with

files and bundles of yellowing papers.

They dump the files and Smiley turns to survey his room. In

his hand he is toying with a black chess piece labelled

"KARLA".

The far wall is now stacked to the ceiling with the

contents of Control's room - thousands of files and

documents, piled in no logical order. The three survey the

mountain of information in silence.

The "Scalphunters" floor. Guillam is in his office, painted

out panels below the waist, glass above. He sits, hands on

the desk, steeling himself for what he has to do.

Abruptly he stands and walks out.

We TRACK with him as he walks through the Scalphunters

"quad" area - a worn out sofa, the old pool table.

One of the Scalphunters - KASPAR - stands flirting with a

pretty SECRETARY - BELINDA - the "Deb" we saw earlier.

Guillam acknowledges them casually as he passes. The girl

gives a little wave. She LIKES him.

Kaspar stares after Guillam. He doesn't.

We continue tracking with Guillam as he leaves the

Scalphunters area, walks down the corridor, turns left

into...

He stands at the basins, checking the room is clear.

Examines his watch, then crosses to the door and opens it a

crack, peering out.

GUILLAM'S P.O.V.

We're looking though a glass panelled door at the PERSONNEL

OFFICE. A dapper little man in a club tie - FAWLEY - sits

behind his desk, idly tapping a desk toy - a Newton's

Cradle. He too checks his watch. Lunch time. Gets up and

walks out of his office.

Guillam counts to ten under his breath and then abruptly,

walks out of the men's room, across the corridor and

into...

The Cradle is still swinging - steel balls clacking softly.

Guillam is opening a safe, pulling out documents,

photographing them with a SUBMINIATURE CAMERA.

Close on the documents as Guillam silently photographs

them.

Guillam hears a voice outside. He draws a SMALL KNIFE from

his pocket.

Kaspar opens the door and walks in, finding... the office

empty.

Then a faint noise. He works his way around the desk, finds

Guillam crouched down, his back to him.

Guillam straightens up to reveal his hand oozing blood from

a cut.

Kaspar busies himself with the first-aid. Eyes hard.

Guillam has just stepped into the lift. Roy Bland appears

suddenly and steps in beside him.

Silence for a moment as they descend...

Guillam makes a mental note against Kaspar.

They arrive on the ground floor. Bland walks out ahead.

Guillam exhales with relief. Then...

The two men sit drinking at a table in a nearly deserted

local bar.

Near the back of the class we find BILL ROACH. He's plump,

asthmatic, the last to be chosen for everything. He looks

out of the window.

Roach stares out at us as the rain lashes against the

window pane. As we watch an old blue Alvis, towing a

battered, second hand CARAVAN, appears - reflected in the

window - driving past.

Roach watches, thrilled to realise he is the sole witness

of this MYSTERIOUS NEW ARRIVAL.

We're looking down into the dip, at the DRIVER of the blue

Alvis, setting up his caravan on bricks, in the gloom and

rain. He's wearing a waterproof cape and hood, obscuring

his face, giving him something of an air of mystery and

menace. There's something odd about the way he moves,

something about his back, as if it's been knocked out of

true...

The Driver rocks the caravan from side to side, loading

bricks underneath, trying to get the thing level.

He senses something and turns to find Roach behind him.

Roach instinctively takes a step back from the hooded

figure. Then, gathering his courage, he holds out his hand.

In his palm, a MARBLE.

LATER:

Roach stands in the caravan, watching the MARBLE as it

rolls backwards and forwards on the windowsill - an

improvised spirit level. THE MARBLE comes to rest at the

centre of the sill, a temporary equilibrium.

Roach turns excitedly to the camera, about to call to the

Driver, but sees something that stops him in his tracks...

The Driver has stopped, his back to us, breathing hard,

perhaps from the exercise or perhaps fighting down some

pain. The wind catches at his cape and it flutters to one

side, revealing the sweat-soaked shirt beneath. As we watch

a DARK STAIN appears at his shoulder blade and begins to

spread. It's BLOOD.

Through the window we see Smiley buying a bottle.

Smiley stands at a ticket kiosk.

A large dilapidated Victorian house. We hear the faint

sound of voices and pop music coming from the garden.

Smiley pushes open the gate, walks down the path, past over-

grown shrubbery until he reaches the door with a bell marked

"SACHS."

Glancing sideways he is caught, entranced, by the sight of a

young couple kissing in the window. They turn, suddenly aware

of his presence and Smiley, embarrassed, continues walking

round the house.

SMILEY'S P.O.V.

A group of students in togas are rehearsing a musical version

of Lysistrata. A young woman, holding her script, is miming

to the song `Don't' by Doris.

An older woman wearing rather too much make-up is carrying a

prop. This is CONNIE SACHS - former Queen of Intelligence at

the Circus. She examines Smiley for a moment, and then breaks

into a charming smile.

ON SMILEY'S EXPRESSION

This is not a social call. Connie can't keep the

disappointment from her face.

Smiley sits in the cluttered drawing room, a plate of scones

in front of him. Connie appears carrying a tray of tea.

He takes the bottle of Scotch from his briefcase.

Smiley feigns surprise. Connie gives a little girl laugh.

She takes the teacup he pours with crooked arthritic

fingers and drinks. They sit, both staring at the students

in the garden, caught up in memories of their youth.

Smiley hesitates.

They look at each other a moment. Connie's smile fades.

She looks at him almost sorrowfully.

Smiley and Connie sit in a dirty, disordered room, Connie

on her way to being drunk. As she finishes her glass Smiley

fills it.

She shrugs, petulant, takes a drink.

Smiley nods, a look of boredom settling on his face - A

SURE SIGN OF INTEREST.

She can't help but smile.

Connie is working late. She sits in front of a Steenbeck

flatbed editing table, she's chain-smoking, unkempt, but

completely focused on the moving images on the screen.

She turns to the shoe box beside her, takes out a

PHOTOGRAPH.

She shows him the photograph - a young Connie in Wren

uniform, young men in cricket whites on a mown lawn. More

senior figures stand behind.

A younger bespectacled Smiley, lost amongst his more

glamorous colleagues. She traces other faces with a crooked

finger.

She stares at the photograph with a sad smile.

Smiley doesn't answer, stands up to go.

The house we saw in the title sequence. The air duct opens

on the front of the house, spilling out its star-shape of

light.

After a moment Polyakov walks up to the door and knocks. We

hear the dog barking...

Mrs McCraig opens the door for him and he passes her with a

smile, heading upstairs.

We TRACK with Mrs McCraig as she walks back to her pantry,

opens a cupboard to reveal a huge reel to reel TAPE

RECORDER. With ancient fingers she presses down the clunky

record button and the spools begin to revolve.

As we saw it in the titles. The Mystery Man sits at the

table holding up pages of a document for Polyakov who is

photographing them as he talks, the camera giving a

satisfying CLICK and WHIR with each shot.

HIGH ANGLE - the dusty candelabra above their heads, and

the tint MICROPHONE, nestled beside one of the bulbs.

... spools churning silently.

We hear his chuckle and the continued CLICK WHIR of the

camera.

Smiley sits at his desk staring at the CHESS SET laid out

before him. One of the pieces has had the photograph of

POLYAKOV added to it.

He begins to register the faint noises around him...

Pigeons on the ledge outside the window, the television

mast creaking on the roof above him...

He hears footsteps approaching down the corridor and stop

outside his room. He crosses to the door and opens it and

finds CONTROL waiting for him.

And in an instant we are in...

Control is at the HEAD OF THE TABLE. Ranged against him are

PERCY ALLELINE, ROY BLAND and TOBY ESTERHASE- all a little

nervous. BILL HAYDON sits to the side, feet up. Smiley

joins them without his spectacles. Control throws him a

FILE.

Smiley sits down and begins to read.

Control waves him down. Smiley considers the report

dispassionately.

We hear a KNOCKING and find ourselves back in...

Mendel holds two mugs of tea in one hand, gives the agreed

knock at Smiley's door again. After a moment a bleary

Smiley opens the door and lets him in.

Mendel passes him the tea, takes in the desk piled high

with papers.

Smiley sits down wearily, sips his tea.

Mendel notices one SLIP OF PAPER, sitting alone on the

opposite side of the desk.

Smiley leans back, rubs his tired eyes.

He takes another sip of tea, gazes at Mendel thoughtfully.

Prideaux is running around the track, pounding along with his

odd, loping stride. A group of BOYS watch him pass. One -

SPIKELEY - mimics the run to the amusement of the others.

A fire burns in the little grate.

ROACH sits near the back of the class. The BOY behind slaps

the back of his neck with a ruler. Roach flinches but

doesn't say anything. The Boy does it again.

Prideaux drops a pile of books onto the desk of a boy -

SPIKELY.

He crosses to the board begins to write on it - JE

M'APPELLE MONSIEUR ELL...

Behind him Spikely hands out the books, continuing to walk

like a HUNCHBACK.

The class snigger. Prideaux hears but doesn't turn,

continues writing.

Then from the CHIMNEY comes an unnerving SCRABBLING sound.

A little soot falls...

The sniggering fades out as all eyes turn nervously to the

fire... what is that noise?

Then, with a terrifying SCREECH, an OWL drops down into the

grate, thrashes in the flames before flapping out into the

class, its wings now ON FIRE, shrieking hideously, headed

straight for Spikely who stands frozen in shock as the bird

swoops towards his face.

Then...

... somehow, Prideaux is THERE and grabs the burning bird

from the air and in a second has it folded in on itself,

NECK SNAPPED, and strides out of the room with it.

The boys stare after their new teacher in SHOCKED SILENCE.

Roach is hiding, spying down on the caravan below, where

Prideaux sits in the doorway, massaging his raised

shoulder, and drinking something from a green beaker.

Frightened, Roach obeys, sliding down the dip to him.

Prideaux examines him fiercely. Finally his face relaxes a

little.

Roach hesitates.

He doesn't know how to explain his misery any further.

Prideaux pretends not to notice.

Roach tries desperately to think of something.

The boy's eyes start to MIST UP. Prideaux looks down,

busies himself with brushing at something on his shirt.

Prideaux finishes his drink, nods to Roach.

Roach sets off up the dip. He looks back and sees Prideaux

has walked into the caravan and stands with his back to

him, rubbing his aching shoulder.

Smiley walks up to the steps of his home, stops, examining

the door, his absent-minded air hardening into something

more ALERT. He scans the step and stoops to pick something

up. A WEDGE.

Smiley walks into the hallway senses alert. He pads towards

the drawing room, wipes sweat from his hands on his

trousers, steels himself. Is it finally Them, come for him?

He walks in and finds...

RICKI TARR sits smoking in the darkness, the knife on his

lap.

He tosses the wedge onto the table.

TARR'S P.O.V. - the HOTEL opposite - a Brutalist concrete

slab, the rooms have floor to ceiling windows. In the

bedroom a heavy set man - BORIS - is having sex with a

MAID.

We TRACK to one side, and see the "drawing room" of the

hotel suite, where Boris' two MINDERS, SERGEI and IVAN,

wait, smirking at the sounds coming from the bedroom.

We TRACK further along again and see the CORRIDOR outside

the hotel room, where a YOUNG WOMAN has just arrived. This

is IRINA.

Irina opens the door and walks into the drawing room, where

the Minders stare fixedly at the floor, trying not to

laugh. She walks on past and into the bedroom. The Maid

jumps out of the bed, grabs her clothes and flees. Boris

lies, unconcerned, reaches for his cigarettes.

Irina walks past him and we track with her as she enters a

BATHROOM. The glass window here is two-thirds frosted and

we lose her as she bends over a basin.

Something about her has caught Tarr's attention and he

leaves the binoculars, walking closer to the window.

Suddenly IRINA straightens up, her head above the frosted

glass and stares straight at us...

HER P.O.V. -

RICKI TARR standing at the window opposite, knowing he

should turn away, but somehow snagged by that look.

A moment between the two. Then a car sweeps past on the

road below and there's a flash of light behind Ricki's head

- the headlights reflected in the lenses of the now visible

BINOCULARS. Irina absorbs this. Above everything else,

anger at her humiliation being observed.

