The lonely sound of a buoy bell in the distance. Water

slapping against a smooth, flat surface in rhythm. The

creaking of wood.

Off in the very far distance, one can make out the sound of

sirens.

SUDDENLY, a single match ignites and invades the darkness. It

quivers for a moment. A dimly lit hand brings the rest of the

pack to the match. A plume of yellow-white flame flares and

illuminates the battered face of DEAN KEATON, age forty. His

salty-gray hair is wet and matted. His face drips with water

or sweat. A large cut runs the length of his face from the

corner of his eye to his chin. It bleeds freely. An un-lit

cigarette hangs in the corner of his mouth.

In the half-light we can make out that he is on the deck of a

large boat. A yacht, perhaps, or a small freighter. He sits

with his back against the front bulkhead of the wheel house.

His legs are twisted at odd, almost impossible angles. He

looks down.

A thin trail of liquid runs past his feet and off into the

darkness. Keaton lights the cigarette on the burning pack of

matches before throwing them into the liquid.

The liquid IGNITES with a poof.

The flame runs up the stream, gaining in speed and intensity.

It begins to ripple and rumble as it runs down the deck

towards the stern.

A stack of oil drums rests on the stern. They are stacked on

a palette with ropes at each corner that attach it to a huge

crane on the dock. One of the barrels has been punctured at

it's base. Gasoline trickles freely from the hole.

The flame is racing now towards the barrels. Keaton smiles

weakly to himself.

The flame is within a few yards of the barrels when another

stream of liquid splashes onto the gas. The flame fizzles out

pitifully with a hiss.

Two feet straddle the flame. A stream of urine flows onto the

deck from between them.

They come to a staircase at the back of the restaurant

leading down to a dark room. Edie takes Keaton's arm and

stops him.

Keaton is uncomfortable in his suit, or perhaps the

situation. Still, he smiles with genuine warmth.

Edie straightens his tie and picks microscopic imperfections

from his lapel.

Keaton blinks then stammers, looking for a response.

PAUSE

She kisses him and runs down the steps with Keaton close

behind. Keaton playfully grabs her ass and she nearly

stumbles down the stairs.

They come to the bottom of the steps giggling and jabbing

each other. Once off the stairs they instantly transform as

though hit with cold air. They assume a cool, professional

exterior and walk two feet apart. One would look at them and

see only two business associates here to ply their trade.

They walk across the dimly lit dining room to a table in the

far corner where two men are already waiting. The first is

MR. FORTIER, age thirty-five, the other is MR. RENAULT, age

sixty. Both men are impeccably dressed with a distinguished

air. They stand and smile.

Renault's hand is already out.

They shake hands. Keaton takes Fortier's hand next.

Everyone sits at the table. All faces are smiling.

LOW ANGLE: UNDER TABLE

Edie's hand reaches out and finds Keaton's leg. Her hand runs

high up his inner thigh and squeezes firmly.

Her face is absolutely calm, giving no hint of what her hand

is doing. Keaton smiles and clears his throat.

Follow a waiter past the flight of steps.

PAN DOWN TO REVEAL:

Five sets of feet arriving at the bottom.

The feet in the middle wear shoes notably nicer than the

rest.

PAN UP TO REVEAL:

SPECIAL AGENT DAVID KUJAN (Pronounced Koo-yahn), U.S.

CUSTOMS. Thirtyish, dark-haired and determined.

Keaton looks at Edie and smiles confidently.

Keaton looks up. He sees David Kujan. Behind him are the very

serious looking guys in suits.

Keaton is not happy to see them.

McManus sits in a chair in front of a white wall. He smiles

at someone off-screen.

OVERLAPPED:

Now Fenster is in the seat. He sweats profusely.

OVERLAPPED:

Hockney's turn in the chair. He laughs it all off.

OVERLAPPED:

Now Keaton sits in the chair, cool and indifferent.

Keaton shows just a flicker of contempt. The threat has hit

home.

A FIST flies into the frame and connects with Keaton's jaw.

His head snaps back, blood flowing freely from his mouth.

Keaton is brought in to a holding where he joins Fenster,

Hockney, Verbal and McManus. He sits in a corner and keeps to

himself.

Fenster is in mid-tirade.

McManus is silently staring at Keaton, who sits on a bench,

looking away.

McManus and Keaton stare at one another for a long and tense

moment. Finally McManus turns to the others.

Everyone but Keaton gravitates toward McManus's cell as he

begins to speak in low, hushed tones.

It is morning in the aftermath of the opening scene.

Harsh sunlight shines on a line of body bags on the dock.

Police swarm everywhere, photographers are taking pictures of

the scene while a team of men in rolled up sleeves and

plastic gloves pick at the remains.

Two men on a fire boat operate a water cannon, dousing the

smoldering remains of a burned-out ships hull.

Watching this from the edge of the pier is a man in a dark

suit. He is SPECIAL AGENT JACK BAER of the F.B.I. He is tall

and fit, in his late thirties. He gazes out over the water

thoughtfully.

A half mile out from the pier.

The sea is choppy, stirred by the wind. An object floats into

view a few feet away, bobbing in the water.

It is A DEAD BODY - a man, face down, wearing a CHECKERED

BATHROBE. He drifts quietly toward the open ocean.

Verbal Kint sits in a chair in front of a microphone attached

to a tape recorder, his brow beaded with sweat.

On the wall behind him is the seal of the STATE OF CALIFORNIA

He is cleaner, better kept, in a well-cut suit and neatly

trimmed hair. He looks older than he did in New York - worn

down.

A flurry of voices banter off screen. Verbal's eyes follow

the voices back and forth.

Verbal lets out a long-held sigh of relief.

David Kujan is walking quickly beside SERGEANT RABIN, a dark

and weathered looking man in his late thirties. They move up

a staircase into the heart of police headquarters.

Rabin motions for Kujan to lower his voice. He points out

that they are walking through a bullpen filled with desks

where a number of other police are working within earshot.

Rabin's office can only be described as a disaster area. The

desk is cluttered with weeks, perhaps months or even years of

paperwork that could never conceivably be sorted out.

Above his desk is a bulletin board. It is a breathtaking

catastrophe of papers, wanted posters, rap-sheets, memos and +

post-its. This is in the neighborhood of decades. Rabin is a

man with a system so cryptic, so far beyond the comprehension

of others, he himself is most likely baffled by it.

Kujan looks around Rabin's messy office.

A door marked INTENSIVE CARE.

The door BURSTS OPEN. SUDDENLY, the hallway is a flurry of

activity.

DOCTOR LISA PLUMBER, age fifty, walks quickly beside JACK

BAER .

Baer walks with all of the determination of a battalion of

Chinese infantry.

DOCTOR RIDGLY WALTERS, a young intern in his late twenties

rushes up to them.

Ridgly opens a door and Baer barrels through.

(<< .. DENOTES LINES SPOKEN IN HUNGARIAN)                          +

Baer comes to an abrupt halt at the foot of a bed surrounded

by a massive tangle of medical equipment. In the center of it

all is the as yet unnamed ARKOSH KOVASH, mid-thirties. His

body is nearly mummified in bandages and plaster from waist

to chin.

BOLD IS OVERLAPPED:

Baer walks over to Rovash and kneels down on the bed beside

him.

He looks closely at his battered and scalded face. He listens

to him far a moment. Kovash goes on incessantly.

Rabin stands over LOUIS, a messy looking technician at his

workbench in a room full of electronic equipment. He adjusts

several dials on a receiver until the voices of Kujan and

Verbal come clearly through a tinny speaker on the wall.

Rabin reaches over for a nearby pot of coffee.

Keaton stops at the top of the front steps of the police

station and lights a cigarette. Edie comes out behind him,

fuming mad.

He looks across the street and sees Fenster and McManus

talking by a newsstand. McManus is thumbing through

magazines.

Keaton looks to his right and sees Hockney trying to hail a

cab.

LONG PAUSE

Verbal smiles, knowing he has him.

OSCAR WHITEHEAD, a tall gray-haired man in his fifties comes

out of the international terminal in a white linen suit. He

holds a large suitcase in his right hand.

Oscar stands on the curb long enough to light a cigarette.

After a moment, a POLICE CRUISER pulls up to him. He opens

the back door and gets in.

The car drives out of the airport. A VAN follows at a

distance.

SERGEANT JIM STRAUSZ, a meaty, imposing looking man in his

forties drives the car. Beside him is a thin, greasy looking

PATROLMAN, STEVE RIZZI. They are two drivers for New York's

Finest Taxi Service.

Oscar hands Rizzi a thick envelope.

Rizzi counts the stack of hundred dollar bills in the

envelope .

The two men laugh. Strausz watches the road, expressionless.

The cruiser heads towards the heart of Manhattan.

'He stands on the front of the roof and swings the hammer

down.

SMASH

The hammer punches three huge holes in the windshield and

finally caves it in. Strausz and Rizzi are covered with

pebbles of broken glass. Whitehead clutches his bag in the

back seat. He trembles in terror.

The man standing on the roof doubles over and sticks a gun in

Strausz's face. His face hangs upside down and looks gruesome

- covered from the mouth up in a stocking. By the voice, we

know it is McManus.

Oscar hands the suitcase up front and Strausz passes it to

McManus.

Through the front windshield of the front van we see Keaton

at the wheel. Verbal is behind him leaning out the back

window.

Beneath Keaton's stocking mask we see he is trembling and

sweating - sickened by what he is doing.

He glances up at the rear-view mirror and looks at the scene

outside. He looks down at the floor in shame, shaking his

head.

Strausz looks at Rizzi.

Rizzi hands the money through the remains of the windshield.

Hockney, Fenster, McManus and Verbal are all laughing in a

secluded garage. They are still in their black clothes from

the robbery. Hockney is throwing everyone a can of beer.

Keaton sits off by himself. He watches the others, unable to

join in the festivities.

The others sit around a cheap card table. It is covered with

emeralds. Dozens of them. Everyone is in awe.

All eyes turn to Keaton. He comes out of his trance.

PAUSE

Everyone looks at each other, their moment of distrust

blowing over. All eyes drift back to the emeralds on the

table.

Hockney begins to snicker, then McManus, then Fenster. Verbal

joins in at last.

McManus grabs Verbal and hugs him, shaking him violently.

SUDDENLY, everyone yells and pours beer over Verbal's head.

He laughs as he is drenched in white foam, nearly choking as

the others chant his name.

Keaton watches from across the room, trying to smile in vain.

Keaton and Verbal sit side by side on a sofa. A sign on the

door behind them reads: MONTGOMERY and LaGUARDIA - ATTORNEYS

AT LAW.

Keaton stands and paces across the waiting room. He comes to

a set of glass doors and looks through them.

Rabin and Louis look at one another as they listen.

Tracy holds up her pad and pencil. She nods.

All five guys stand in a group. It is utterly quiet.

An old but well kept Cadillac creeps into the lot from the

far end and idles up to them. The windows are tinted too much

to see in. The car passes within a few feet of them and

drives on.

A moment later, a chrome and leather monster of a Harley

Davidson pulls into the lot. The rider is dressed in an

almost comical array of leather, silver and suede.

He waves to the Caddy as it parks a few yards from Keaton and

the others. It sits quietly, almost menacing.

As he gets closer, we can see he is wearing one black boot

and one red. Keaton is still looking at them when the bike

pulls up to them and stops.

REDFOOT and McManus shake hands.

McManus walks along a line of cars. He comes across a black

Mercedes and stops. He looks down at the license plate and

walks over to the next car, a green Honda. He pulls a slim-

jim out of his jacket and pops the lock an the Honda. He

reaches in and opens the hood. He walks around and sticks his

head in the engine.

Verbal sits behind the wheel. Keaton is beside him. Hockney

and Fenster are in the back. They all watch McManus from

where they are parked a few dozen yards away.

DING-DING

The elevator bell sounds at the far end of the garage. The

doors open. Two men in ill-fitting suits get out and look

around cautiously. The first is TUCCI, a big bellied, white

haired menace. The other is HIGHAM, lean and bad skinned.

They are bodyguards and give it away by their every careful

move.

They turn back to the elevator and motion to someone inside.

Out walks SAUL BERG, a slightly overweight man in his forties

with an open collar silk shirt and a thick gold chain on his

hairy chest. He carries a LARGE ALUMINUM BRIEFCASE.

He lets his guards do the worrying. He walks straight to his

car.

Saul passes McManus under the hood of the Honda. He takes out

his keys and pushes a button on his key chain. The Mercedes

beeps three times and tells Saul his alarm is off.

Tucci keeps an eye on McManus. Higham watches Saul.

McManus pretends to tinker with the car's engine. He has put

a pistol just inside the grill and keeps it within reach.

The van on the other side of the garage starts and pulls out

of the spot. It cruises over toward the Mercedes.

Tucci sees the van. He and Higham are suddenly busy trying to

keep track. They hear laughing behind them and turn around.

Redfoot drives off..The Caddy waits until he is completely

out of sight before following.

A KNOCK AT THE DOOR

Rabin sticks his head in.

Kujan steps out into the hall, shutting the door behind him.

Kujan smiles instantly, recognizing the man standing with

Rabin.

BOOM - The door bursts open.

Verbal looks up in shock. He drops his cigarette and trembles

at the mere mention of the name.

Keaton stands while the rest sit and listen.

SUDDENLY, The sound of a man clearing his throat.

Everyone turns to the door behind them.

MR. KOBAYASHI a tall, slim, well groomed man stands in the

hall. He has a briefcase in his hand. He smiles politely.

Keaton stands back and lets him in. Kobayashi looks them

over.

Everyone looks at one another in shock that he would know

this.

Kujan leans into Verbal's face. He hangs on his every word.

Three of the Hungarians come bursting into Keyser Soze's            +

home. They grab his five children and round them up in the

front room. One of the men grabs his wife and back-hands her

across the face.

The front door opens and in walks Keyser Sate. We are never         t

allowed to see his face.

Sate's wife lies in the corner, beaten and bruised. Her dress

is tattered to shreds. She cannot look up at her husband.

The three Hungarians stand to greet him. Two hold guns in

their hands. The third holds a straight razor. He grabs

Soze youngest boy and holds the razor to his throat.

The Hungarian smiles. Soze's wife SCREAMS IN HORROR.

The Hungarian holds up a BLOOD SOAKED RAZOR.

SUDDENLY, he grabs another child. A little girl no older than

six.

SUDDENLY, Soze pulls out a pistol and shoots the two men with

guns. He turns and aims at the third man holding his child.

The man threatens to cut the child's throat, slicing just

enough to draw blood.

SOZE FIRES.

The stunned Hungarian watches the child fall from his arms.

Sate turns the pistol on the next child, then the next and

the next. He kills his children one by one in front of the

Hungarian.

Doctor Plumber watches from out in the hall.                         +

Kovash spits out a constant river of Hungarian while Bodi

tries to keep up, relaying everything to Tracy Fitzgerald.

She sketches frantically while Daniel Metzheiser looks on.

The composite sketch of Keyser SOZE is taking form.

Waves pound across a stone jetty. A MAN sits fishing while

his young son, BRANDO strolls toward the open sea. He pokes

at rocks and seaweed with a fishing pole. He glances down at

Something wedged between the rocks beneath his feet. He

pokes at it. He notes the checkered pattern of the fabric

entwined with the twisted mess. It is the bloated carcass of

THE MAN IN THE CHECKERED BATHROBE. BRANDO pokes it's eye

with the fishing pole. It pops.

Keaton looks out over the ocean and smokes a cigarette.

McManus kneels in the sand. Hockney and Verbal stand behind

him, staring at something in front of them.

It is the body of Fred Fenster, literally peppered with

bullet holes. McManus stares at him, fighting any flicker of

emotion.

McManus springs to his feet and points a pistol at Keaton.

Keaton turns to face him and raises his head. McManus might

as well be pointing a feather-duster.

Everyone digs in the sand on the deserted beach with their

hands. They are up to their waists in the hole they have

scooped out. Fenster's body is a few feet away.

Hockney can see that McManus has truly gone over the edge for

now. Keaton gives him a look that says don't argue.

Keaton turns and digs furiously with both hands. Hockney

takes a moment and slowly starts to do the same.

The four men dig for Fenster. The first to find some rest.

Verbal smokes with his good hand shaking badly.

Redfoot's Harley rests on the roof of the Caddy in a mangled

heap. The body of the Caddy is riddled with bullet holes.

Redfoot's dead body has been shoved head-first through a hole

in the windshield up to his waist, recognizable only by the

trademark red boot.

Kobayashi walks through the front door of a plush office

tower followed by two bodyguards. He heads toward the

elevator, failing to notice Hockney a few feet away, reading

a newspaper.

We see a wire running from Hockney's ear to his collar.

Keaton, McManus and Verbal stand by the six elevators on the

fortieth floor. They are all wearing khaki overalls and tool

belts with walkie-talkies. They look like servicemen.

All of the elevators have been propped open and stranded.

McManus moves into one of the elevators. As the doors close         i

behind him, he scrambles for the ceiling hatch.

Keaton and Verbal listen for anything on the radio.

McManus holds a pistol to Kobayashi's chin. The lawyer's cool

eyes never falter'.

SUDDENLY, Keaton grabs McManus' hand and pulls the gun away

before he can shoot.

Everyone looks at Keaton.

Everyone follows Kobayashi quietly down a dimly lit, oak-

lined hallway. Verbal holds a small pistol discreetly in the

small of Kobayashi's back.

They come to a glass office foyer. Kobayashi gestures and

everyone looks through the glass into the lobby beyond.

EDIE FINNERAN is talking casually with the receptionist.

Edie glances toward the men in the hall.

Keaton turns quickly on his heels, facing the others. From

where Edie stands, it looks as though Kobayashi is talking to

a group of harmless maintenance men.

They see A LARGE MAN dressed very much like the two dead

bodies left in the hall downstairs. The man notices Kobayashi

and the others. He stands and stares menacingly.

Keaton's mind races for an alternative. He can find none.

Verbal lowers his gun without being told.

All of the men surround Kobayashi, aching to kill him.

Kobayashi walks into the office. Edie turns to greet him.

Keaton slowly turns and watches as they shake hands and talk.

Kobayashi says something they cannot hear and Edie laughs,

her back to the window.

Kobayashi smiles over her shoulder at Keaton.

All the while, the bodyguard watches Keaton. He nods politely

before Keaton and the others leave. Verbal watches for a

moment more and follows.

Keaton, Verbal, Hockney and McManus sit in a rented sedan

overlooking San Pedro harbor.

Another file from Kobayashi's briefcase is laid out on the

dashboard. This has a map and a good fifty pages of

information in it.

Keaton turns and takes a few steps. He stops and looks back,

his face marked with guilt and agony.

Keaton leaves before Verbal can respond. He walks down a ramp

toward the boat.

He is no more than a few yards out of the shadows before the

first man sees him.

One of the men in suits starts to yell to the others. Men

pull out guns and try to look as cool as they can.

Keaton walks right into the face of all of these men,

undaunted. His hands are in his pockets.

Above him, in the darkness, McManus pokes his head out and

spies Keaton. He pulls his head back and sticks out the

barrel of the rifle.

Keaton comes to a stop about twenty feet from fifteen men all

together.

McMANUS'S P.O.V.

McManus stares through the scope of his rifle at the scene.

The cross-hairs breeze past Keaton and find a target. A man

in a suit.

He moves to another and then another, picking up speed and

mock-shooting the men. He is steady and quick. It is clear he

could take all fifteen in a few seconds.

The men shout questions at Keaton in a number of languages.

HOCKNEY'S P.O.V.

A few men standing on the dock near the stern of the large

boat, move towards the commotion.

Hockney bails out and runs quickly and quietly through the

shadows, bringing the bomb with him.

Verbal remains in the darkness, looking frightened.

McManus still wanders with his scope.

Finally two men walk right towards Keaton. The rest train

guns on him. They reach for his arms, pointing their guns

right at him.

At the far end of the dock, Hockney throws his bomb onto the

stern of the large boat.

IT EXPLODES

The men surrounding Keaton, are distracted.

Keaton pulls a pistol out of each pocket and shoots the two

men closest to him.

He fires as fast as he can.

The men from the boat and the men in suits try to peg Keaton,

but McManus' sniping has them running.

The crane operator opens the door to bails out, leaving the

crane in motion.,,

McManus runs across the roof of the boathouse and jumps down

to the pier. He arrives at a thick mooring cable and climbs

across to the boat.                                                 i

MEANWHILE ON THE DOCK:

Keaton climbs up onto a small lifeboat hanging from the side

of the larger boat. From this he climbs aboard the large

boat.

BOOM - Another shot takes off the top of his head.

McManus runs like a wild man across the deck, heading for the

hatch .

He shoots in all directions as though he has eyes in the back

of his head. He sees Keaton climbing onto the deck of the

boat.

Verbal is wrestling with what to do. He finally makes a break

for the other side of the boathouse.

The crane continues to swing.

A single bullet hits one of the barrels on the suspended

pellet.

Gasoline pours out through the bullet-hole.

Keaton finds the hatch and goes below, shooting a man on his

way up the stairs. McManus jumps on board and runs down

behind him.

Verbal arrives at the top of the ramp leading from the dock

to the pier.                                                        +

He ducks down behind a guardrail beside the ramp.

He turns and sees Hockney's dead body next to the van.

He looks around frantically, frozen in terror.

It is quiet, except for the sounds of screaming, far off in

the bowels of the boat and the hum of the crane.

A KNOCK ON THE DOOR.

Rabin steps in and motions for Kujan to come outside.

Rabin and Jack Baer are in the hall. Rabin hands Kujan a

thick manila folder. Kujan thumbs through it.

Bear nods.

Kujan pulls out page after page from the file.

Kujan finds one sheet and notices a paragraph is highlighted.

Kujan walks in and sits down in front of Verbal. He smiles.

Verbal is confused.

Keaton is weaving through tight, low-ceiling corridors,

looking in every cabin, working his way towards the bottom of

the boat.

ELSEWHERE IN THE BOAT, McManus is tearing though the

corridors, seemingly less interested in securing the cargo as

he is in killing everyone on board.

He screams like a lunatic, shooting everything in his path,

killing some men with his bare hands, shooting others,

stabbing others still with a knife he has brought along.

JAIME, one of the men from the boat, is half-pushing, half-

helping a thin and sweaty looking MAN IN A CHECKERED BATHROBE

towards a cabin at the end of the hall.

The man in the robe is trembling. He seems stricken with

fear.

Jaime pushes him inside the cabin and shuts the door.

A stereo playing softly in the room mixes with the man's

panicked breathing.

The man in the robe screams through the closed door, his

voice echoing off of the metal bulkheads.

Jaime stands outside the door of the cabin and turns to face

down the hall. Off in some other part of the boat, he can

hear McManus wailing like a banshee and the ever-less

frequent sound of gunshots.

Keaton has come to the four-foot-high door to the hold. The

door is open slightly. Keaton finds this strange. He pushes

the door open and steps inside. The hold is empty.

He hears a noise behind him. He wheels around to fire. He

sees McManus in the door. His face is covered with blood.

McManus rubs some of the blood off with his sleeve.

McManus looks around the hold as though he'll see four and a

half tons of dope in some corner where Keaton might have

missed it.

The two men look at one another. There is a long, pregnant

silence.

Keaton and McManus step out of the hold, walking slowly and

cautiously back from where they came. They hear the sounds of

footsteps running on the deck above and the occasional

hollered sentence in Spanish.

They come to a corner. They can go left or right.

BOOM - BOOM

Gunshots fill the hallway from behind them. They do not stop

to turn around. Keaton goes left, McManus goes right. They

run in opposite directions with the sound of gunfire right

behind them.

Jaime squints and cocks his head.

Something about this man terrifies him.

Kujan picks up his copy of Verbal's statement to the D.A.

Verbal is drowning in Kujan's interrogation. He looks dazed.

Verbal holds up a shaking, twisted hand.

Verbal is hiding in the tangle of girders and cables on the

barge.

VERBAL'S P.O.V.

Keaton's body is completely obscured.

The man in a suit strides across the deck over to Keaton,

stopping to relieve himself on a small fire on the deck.

He walks up and stands over Keaton. The two men exchange

words and the man in the suit pulls out a pistol. He points

it at Keaton.

RED AND BLUE LIGHTS FLASH BEHIND VERBAL

Verbal turns. He can just make out police cars coming in the

distance.

BANG

Verbal hears a shot from the deck of the boat. He turns in

time to see the man in the suit running across the deck

toward the gangway.

Verbal can barely see the man from where he is now. The man

in the suit is covered by shadows and the poor angle from the

barge. Verbal strains to see but he cannot.

The man in the suit stops long enough to pull out a lighter.

He turns and walks back across the deck and out of sight.

A moment later flames leap up from on the deck.

The mesh of steel and rubber leaves a dark and open cocoon at

its base.

MOVE INTO THE DARKNESS.

Sirens are close now. Almost here. The sound of fire raging

out of control.

SIRENS BLARING. TIRES SQUEALING. CAR DOORS OPENING. FEET

POUNDING THE PAVEMENT.

Verbal stands, mustering his shattered dignity and walks

towards the door. Rabin opens it for him from outside.

For once Kujan cannot bring himself to look at Verbal.

Verbal turns to the door, stopping to look Rabin in the eye.

He steps out of the room and into the hall. Rabin follows

him.

Daniel Metzheiser comes out of Arkosh Kovash's room with a

single sheet of 15x20 inch paper in his hand. He inspects the

sketch with great interest. He folds the edges of the paper

back to make it smaller.

Metzheiser walks behind the reception desk without asking the

nurse for permission and helps himself to the fax machine.

Verbal is downstairs in the depot of the police station

picking up his personal belongings.

A FAT, WHITE-HAIRED COP is checking off the items as he takes

them out of the tray in which they are kept.

Verbal collects his personal items and shuffles on his lame

leg toward the exit.

Jack Baer stands by a fax machine. A green light comes on

next to a digital display.

The display reads: RECEIVING

Kujan stares solemnly at the bulletin board, drinking from

Rabin's coffee cup. Rabin sits at the desk, sifting through

the mound of gapers as though considering organizing them

once and for all.

Kujan shakes his head. He gestures to the desk.

Rabin regards the mess of his office.

Kujan is not listening. He has been staring at the bulletin

board, lost in thought, his unfocused eyes drifting across

the mess of papers, not looking at anything at all.

Verbal steps out into the sunlight, putting on a pair of

cheap sunglasses. He looks up and down the crowded street.

People on their way to and from lunch, no doubt.

Cars choke the street in front of the police department as

they wait for pedestrians to clear the way.

A single sheet of paper comes out of the fax machine, face

down.

Kujan still stares at the bulletin board.

SUDDENLY, Kujan's face changes. He leans in closer to the

bulletin board and squints his eyes. His face changes again.

First a look of puzzlement, then confusion - finally

realization.

The coffee cup tumbles from his hand. It hits the floor with

the SMASH of cheap porcelain. Coffee splatters everywhere.

Rabin snaps out of his droning and looks up in surprise.

KUJAN'S P.O.V.

Kujan is staring not at what is on the bulletin board, but at

the bulletin board itself.

His eyes follow the aluminum frame, mounted firmly to the

wall. One might note it's sturdy construction and it's

convenient size. Big enough to hold a lifetime of forgotten

and disregarded notes and facts. Years of police trivia that

has been hung and forgotten with the intention of finding a

use for it all someday. One might want such a bulletin board

for one's self. One would look to see who makes such a

bulletin board.

Kujan's eyes are locked on a metal plate bearing the

manufacturer's name.

The cog gestures towards the door.

Kujan runs outside looking around frantically.

Verbal limps his way carefully across the sidewalk, avoiding

people as best as he can.

He looks over his shoulder, getting farther away from the

police station. He can see Rabin and the cop on the steps,

looking around with strange, lost expressions on their faces.

He does not notice the car creeping along the curb beside

him.

DRIVER'S P.O.V.

The driver's hands tap the wheel patiently. His eyes follow

Verbal as he fumbles through the crowd.

Kujan pushes and shoves, looking this way and that.

LOW ANGLE on the feet of dozens of people.

Verbal's feet emerge from the crowd on the far side. They

hobble along the curb.

SUDDENLY, the right foot seems to relax a little, the inward

angle straightens itself out in a few paces and the limp

ceases as though the leg has grown another inch.

CRANE UP VERBAL'S BODY

Verbal's hands are rummaging around in his pockets. The good

left hand comes up with a pack of cigarettes, the bad right

hand comes up with a lighter. The right hand flexes with all

158   INT. DISPATCHER'S OFFICE                                           158

159   EXT. STREET                                                        159

