NOTE: THE HARD COPY OF THIS SCRIPT CONTAINED SCENE NUMBERS

AND SOME "OMITTED" SLUGS. THEY HAVE BEEN REMOVED FOR THIS

SOFT COPY.

EXT. SOMEWHERE IN THE DESERT SOUTHWEST - DAY

BEGIN TITLES OVER:

It is early morning and already hot.  INSECTS drone, crackle,

and scurry for shade.  PRAIRIE DOGS burrow to escape the sun.

We can see the heat shimmering off the surface of the Earth.

On a dusty highway, a pair of VULTURES dine on a dead coyote.

One of them snags an intestine and tugs a few feet of it out of

the carcass.

In the distance, where a long, dusty road meets the horizon, a

small shape appears -- a Sixty-four-and-a-half Mustang

convertible, its top down.  Its candy-apple red burns like a

brilliant fireball under the sun.  As the car drifts closer, we

see steam escaping from under the hood.  Sammi Smith's "Please

Help Me Get Through The Night" plays on the car's radio.

INT. BOBBY COOPER'S MUSTANG - DAY

At the wheel, ignoring impending disaster, BOBBY COOPER, young,

good-looking, fiddles with the RADIO dial, annoyed only to find

country stations. He's been driving since noon yesterday and it

shows -- along with a heavily-bandaged left hand resting on the

steering wheel. He finds something by Pearl Jam or Smashing

Pumpkins and he cranks it. He pops a Percodan with his good hand

as, in the shimmering distance ahead, he sees black shapes in

the road and lays on the horn.

EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY

As the MUSTANG powers by, the VULTURES move off the shoulder,

silently watching.

INT. MUSTANG - DAY

The RADIO blares as BOBBY fights to stay awake. His attention is

caught by blue and red lights flashing in the oncoming lane. He

sits up as the POLICE CAR (SHERIFF POTTER inside) closes

quickly. The SIREN starts faintly, then SCREAMS as the cruiser

roars past at speed.

There is a loud pop from the front of the Mustang and a thick

cloud of steam now pours from the hood. The temperature gauge

now starts rising.

A couple of SEMIS roar past in the opposite direction,

buffetting the Mustang with their air waves.

EXT. FORK IN THE ROAD - DAY

The car rolls into a fork in the road, limping with the droop of

an animal that won't make another hundred yards.

One sign on the larger road says "GLOBE" is 29 miles away. The

other sign, on the lesser road, tells us "SUPERIOR" is only 2

miles. A third sign confirms his destiny with "Gas, Food, 1

Mile."

BOBBY seems to have no choice. He aims the car down the lesser

road towards "Superior, Arizona."

EXT. OUTSKIRTS SUPERIOR - DAY

The car rattles on its last legs, as BOBBY mutters incantations,

noticing a old, ghostlike MINING COMPANY at the base of the

mountains overlooking the TOWN. It's deserted now, no one

visible, the gates shut, but in its vast, dark bulk, we sense

the ancient richness and power of this town. Bobby moves on.

EXT. HARLIN'S GARAGE - DAY

Down the road from the MINING COMPANY, BOBBY'S CAR pulls into a

small GAS STATION, made of weather-beaten wood, its windows long

since dusted over. The pumps themselves look to have been

manufactured in the early fifties. Above the station is a sign

so faded it's barely readable: HARLIN'S.

Bobby gets out of the car and with great care, favoring his

bandaged left hand which seems to give him a great deal of pain,

he opens the hood. A plume of steam hits him in the face.

Bobby looks around for someone, anyone.  After a few moments he

reaches into the car and blows the horn.  He waits, then blows

it again.  From out of the station walks DARRELL - a

slow-looking man in coveralls caked with grease and dirty.  He

looks the part of a yokel.

Darrell points a scraggly finger at a plateau in the distance.

Bobby is confused, but chooses to drop the matter.

Darrell mops his brow with a greasy rag.  It doesn't so much

wipe the sweat as it does streak his forehead with dirt.

Darrell is clearly upset at being cut off.  He leans into the

car and looks at the engine.

Bobby wipes the bandaged hand across his forehead.

Self-consciously Bobby quickly drops his hand to his side.

Darrell slams down the hood.

Bobby reaches into the car, pulls out a small ugly gym bag which

he slings onto his shoulder and moves to the trunk, pops it open.

The trunk lid rises in the air, partially blocking Bobby from

Darrell, acting as a partition between them.

He throws the car key to Darrell who takes the hint, spits

grotesquely into the dirt, scratches his nuts, and walks back

to the shack.

Concealed by the trunk lid, Bobby pulls out a GUN (a .9mm black

Baretta), wrapped in a t-shirt, from the top of the bag. Perhaps

we see a flash of green money, lots of it. Sports pages and

betting sheets are piled inside. With a look around, Bobby takes

the gun and stashes it underneath the rubber mat in the trunk.

Briefly we notice a towing ROPE under the mat. There is a small

travel bag, from which he peels a fresh bottle of Percodan,

quickly taking two, as well as the sports page.

INT. HARLIN'S GARAGE - DAY

DARRELL watches out of the darkened office through the front

window, as BOBBY slams the trunk and starts walking down the

road, with the bag on his shoulder.

EXT. DESERT ROAD - LATER

BOBBY walks along a dusty patch of road into town past a sign

saying "SUPERIOR - HOME OF THE GOLDEN DOOR RETIREMENT

COMMUNITY." As he walks on, a pair of MOTORCYCLERS roar past on

their Harleys blanketing him in a cloud of DUST.  He shouts

after them, but his words are lost under the whine of the cycle

engines.

EXT. SUPERIOR MAIN STREET - DAY

BOBBY hits town, such as it is:  The Freeway left here a few

years back. There are only a few little stores:  A general

store, a catalog outlet, a post office that doubles as a bus

depot.  All of them built for the desert heat. The busiest spot

in town seems to be the truckstop/diner with a few 18 wheelers

parked outside it.

At the corner of one street sits an old BLIND MAN dressed in

raggedy clothes, perhaps an Indian. His SEEING-EYE DOG lies next

to him. He's talking to TWO OLD MEN, veterans perhaps, Indian or

Spanish. They both have missing limbs and slide off with furtive

alcoholic looks as Bobby passes. The Blind Man yells out in an

American Indian accent.

Bobby walks across the street to a very old soda machine; it has

bottles instead of cans.  The blind man shouts to Bobby.

Bobby puts change in the machine and pulls out a bottle of Dr.

Pepper.  He starts back to the blind man.

Bobby goes back to the machine and opens the bottle, then walks

back to the old man who pours a splash on the ground.

He takes a hearty swig of the soda.

The blind man holds the bottle out to Bobby.  A string of saliva

runs from his lips to the bottle's neck.

Bobby reaches down and pets the old man's dog. Flies buzz around

both the dog and the Blind Man.

Bobby jumps back.

Bobby noticing a beautiful woman down the street, GRACE McKENNA,

compulsively turns and catches up to her.  She is dressed better

than the usual t-shirts and tank tops of this town -- perhaps a

mail-ordered dress or a mother's hand-me-down.  With her raven

hair and caramel skin, it is obvious she is Native American. Her

arms are full with an awkward package she can barely manage.

Grace stops walking.

Grace hesitates, then gives the package to Bobby.  He has

trouble with it himself.

Bobby blurts out emphatically.

He catches himself, and softens a bit.

They start walking towards Grace's car.

They get to a car and Bobby puts down the package.

Bobby takes up the package and they begin walking again.  The

package seems to have gained weight.

Bobby struggles with the package.  Sweat starts to sheet his

face.

They arrive at a JEEP SAHARA.

Bobby practically drops the package.  He is covered with sweat.

Grace steps to Bobby and places her hand against his chest.  She

rubs away some of the sweat. They look at each other a beat. A

POLICE CAR, seen earlier, pulls up beside them from behind and

idles. SHERIFF VIRGIL POTTER is a weathered, handsome,

middle-aged man with suspicious eyes, black haired in contrast

to Bobby's sandiness.

Bobby turns to the Sheriff and forces a smile.

The Sheriff drives on.  Pause.  They look at each other.

Bobby considers the offer, but there's not much considering to

do.

EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY

BOBBY rides along with GRACE in her JEEP.

Grace looks to Bobby and smiles.

INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM/BATHROOM - LATER - DAY

BOBBY, naked, steps into the shower and turns on the water.  It

shoots from the shower head and cascades over his body.  As the

water falls over him we hear a Russian accented voice:

Bobby press his left hand against the white tile to steady

himself.  His hand is curled in such a way we cannot see his

pinky or ring finger.  Bobby leans back in the shower.  Just as

he does:

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

It is raining hard.  Matching the backwards motion of the last

scene BOBBY is thrown violently against a brick wall, facing

out.

Bobby is being pressed against the wall by two muscular GOONS.

Another MAN stands partially hidden behind the goon's frame.

With one hand one goon flattens Bobby's hand against the brick,

with his other he clips two fingers off with a GARDEN SHEAR. We

see Bobby's face in agonizing pain, then he slides

the ground until he is framed between the legs of the men.

As Bobby clutches his left hand the rainwater runs in streaks

down his ashen, blank face.

INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM/BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

We see BOBBY's face reliving the experience as once again we

hear the voice.

Bobby has slumped to the floor of the shower, looking to his

left hand, almost crying, unable to tolerate it.  As a streak of

blood snakes down the white tile we see that the pinky and ring

FINGERS have been cut off at the joints.

INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM/BATHROOM - DAY

BOBBY, his hand rebandaged, is putting on his clothes.

As he does he looks at himself in the mirror.  He bends to pick

up his shirt which is draped over the gym bag.  As he lifts it we

can see, perhaps more closely than at the garage, that the bag is

3/4 filled with money.  He closes the bag and stands.  In the

MIRROR, hidden in the doorway, he sees GRACE watching him.  Bobby

slows perceptibly, but does not try to hide himself.  After a

moment Grace walks into the room carrying a glass of lemonade.

Bobby takes the lemonade and drinks it down.  He rubs the glass

against his forehead.

Bobby gives a smile as devilish as it is pleasant. Grace slides

an ice cube from the glass between her lips. He notices a framed

picture of GRACE and an OLDER MAN.

Grace sits on the edge of the bed. Bobby indicates the picture,

ironic.

Bobby senses she's lying but plays along.

Bobby goes to Grace and kneels before her.  She takes his head

in her hands and looks deep into his eyes.  Her voice goes

thick, but soft, like a morning fog.

Bobby closes his hands on Grace's and takes them from his face.

He is more than slightly spooked by the accuracy of Grace's

reading.

They silently stare into each other's eyes.

Grace walks from the room.  For a moment Bobby stares after her.

He takes an ice cube from his glass and crunches it in his

teeth.

INT. GRACE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

GRACE is standing on a step ladder trying to hang the drapes.

BOBBY notices a photo of Grace with an older INDIAN WOMAN, her

mother?

Bobby stands behind her, gently places his hands on Grace's

waist.

Bobby holds her tighter as she finished hanging the drapes.  His

eyes are transfixed on her ass.

Bobby lifts Grace down from the ladder.  He holds her, his hands

around her waist.

With a sexy pout Grace loads the next question.

Bobby steps close to Grace and takes her by the shoulders.  He

pulls her to him and presses his lips hard to hers.  Grace

doesn't respond.

Bobby grabs up his pack.

Bobby turns to leave.

For a beat Bobby stands and stares hard at Grace.  His pack

slides from his shoulder and thuds on the floor.  With great

determination, like a beast closing for the kill, Bobby moves

for her.  Grace stands firm, ready for him; her head tilts back.

Her breath comes deep and hard.

Just as Bobby is about to reach her, just as he is about to take

her, he is stopped dead by the booming voice of JAKE McKENNA.

Bobby turns to face Jake:  An older man, still large and

formidable for his age.

Grace says nothing.  She picks up a glass of lemonade and sips

at it coolly.

Jake punches him in the nose.

It probably isn't, but it bleeds. Bobby feels the blood and then

sees it on his shirt.

Bobby glares back at Grace who gives him a maddening little smile.

He storms out holding his nose.

EXT. DESERT ROAD - LATER - DAY

BOBBY, holding a handkerchief to his nose which has stopped

bleeding, hauling his bag on his shoulder, walks back to town

along the side of the road. Already he is caked with a mixture

of sweat and dust, looking up at the relentless sun that beats

down on him.

A CADILLAC slows beside him, JAKE driving.

Bobby continues walking.

Bobby gets in.

Jake wipes his hand across the back of Bobby's neck and holds it

to his nose.

Jake nudges Bobby who smiles a nervous smile.

Jake looks at Bobby, his lips curled into a sly smile.

Bobby gives a little laugh.

Bobby starts to laugh heartily.  Jake joins in, then stops

abruptly.

Bobby starts to laugh. Bobby stops laughing.

For a moment Bobby sits in silence not sure of what to make of

the offer.

They reach town and Jake stops the car near a small GROCERY

STORE.

Bobby gets out of the car.  With a big smile Jake says:

Jake speeds away.  Bobby looks after him.

INT. SMALL GROCERY STORE - LATER

The store is small and dark and empty save for a tiny, older

Mexican WOMAN who is behind the counter.  BOBBY enters.

Bobby cups his hand and brings it to his mouth pantomiming.

She holds up a pack of Twinkies.

The old woman's eyes widen.  She starts to scream, but quickly

clamps her hands over her mouth.  For a moment Bobby thinks the

woman is screaming at what he has said.  Then, as if he feels a

presence behind him, Bobby turns slowly to face the TWO

tough-looking, unshaven, tattoo-covered BIKERS.  One holds a

gun.

Bobby shifts his weight trying to hide his pack behind his back.

The woman goes to an old-fashioned cash register and rings it

open.  She hands the money to the biker.

The biker turns to Bobby.

Bobby pulls a thick wad of cash ($1,000 plus) from his pant

pocket, tosses it on the counter.

Bobby makes a show of pulling out his wallet, flings it to him.

Bobby takes an unsteady breath.

The biker grabs Bobby's bag. Bobby flinches in anticipation of a

shot but refuses to let go of the bag.  The biker swings the gun

hard, clipping Bobby across the forehead.  Bobby falls against

the counter and to the floor.  The woman starts to scream. The

biker grabs up the pack, then, looking back at the woman, sees a

ring on her finger.  He grabs her hand and pulls at the ring.

The woman screams wildly.

He pulls the ring from the woman's finger and pushes her back.

With Bobby's bag slung over his shoulder he turns to leave.

From beneath the counter the woman pulls a shotgun. The woman

fires A SHOT that rips through the bag and into the back of the

biker.  He falls to the ground, very dead, amid a shower of

blood and shredded money.

The Second Biker now sees the money floating all over the place

out of the torn bag. His eyes go big with greed as he FIRES at

the old woman, who ducks behind the counter.

The Biker grabs for the bag and what's left of the money, not

expecting the feisty old lady to pop up and unload her SECOND

BLAST into him and the bag.

Whatever was left of the money on the first round is now gone to

shreds along with the bag and the Biker who is very dead.

Bobby is staggered, crawls towards the shreds.

She comes around the counter to his side as he grabs his wallet

and the $1000 cash roll from the dead biker's pants.

Bobby gives her a hundred dollars.

Bobby gives her some more cash. She looks at him. Finally he

gives her the entire wad.

Bobby stumbles from the store as the screen burns a bright white.

EXT. STREET - LATER

BOBBY, dazed and holding his head, sits on the ground next to a

SPIGOT that is dripping water.  He cups his hands under the

water and splashes it against his face, lightly wiping the cut

above his eye. The SHERIFF'S CAR goes wailing by on the main

drag. Recoiling from being spotted, Bobby tries to take another

drink. A SCORPION crawls out of the faucet. He jumps back.

EXT. HARLIN'S GARAGE - LATER

DARRELL is leaning under the hood of a car working on its engine

as BOBBY walks up.

Bobby rolls his eyes. Then notices the front fenders have been

removed.

Bobby digs through his bloodied wallet, trying to hide it from

Darrell. He fishes out a five dollar bill. Then digs out a

bloody one dollar bill from his pocket.

Darrell snatches the five from him and adds it to a thick wad of

greasy bills he carries in his overalls.

Bobby proffers his Movado watch.

Darrell doubts that, shake his head.

Bobby stands his ground for a moment as if deciding whether or

not to fight for the car, then wheels and walks away.

Darrell looks at him, smirks.

INT. TRUCK STOP/DINER - LATER

It is a little worn diner-type stop one would find on most any

open road:  Counter with stools, laminated menus, a Wurlitzer in

the corner belching out country TUNES.  Business is slow but

it's the only restaurant in town. There is a SHORT ORDER COOK in

the kitchen, and FLO, a hard-looking waitress is behind the

counter.  A couple of regular drivers, ED and BOYD, are seated

on the stools, Boyd is flipping a coin.

BOBBY comes out of the men's room and sits at the end of the

counter.  He has cleaned himself up a bit but still looks like a

mess. He buries his face in the menu.

Flo moves off.

As Bobby stares at the money on the counter in front of him, he

hears, from somewhere outside the diner, the sound of a POLICE

RADIO crackling. He now feels something against his foot.  He

looks down and sees a CAT rubbing against his leg.  He gives it

a good kick sending it sliding across the floor with a screech.

In the background, two teenagers sit at a booth.  TOBY looks the

part of a local, wearing jeans and a white T-shirt.  His hair is

cropped close and he looks to be a senior in high school.  His

girl, JENNY, is nondescript, neither ugly nor beautiful. She is

the kind of girl most guys would pass without a second look.

Toby gets up from his booth and goes to the bathroom.  After he

is gone Jenny walks to Bobby.

Bobby looks at Jenny, then picks a quarter from his winnings and

flips it to her. He can't resist putting a little charm into it.

Bobby half smiles.  Jenny plays a song.  Patsy Cline's "Your

Cheatin' Heart."  Jenny takes up a stool next to Bobby's.

Toby walks back into the room.  He looks at Jenny.  He looks at

Bobby.  He looks at Jenny talking to Bobby.  He loses it.

Bobby says nothing, ignoring Toby.

Bobby looks Jenny over.

Bobby sits for a beat. he doesn't need a fight with Toby now

with his damaged hand nor does he need to be noticed either. He

sits there.

Reluctantly Bobby rises, facing off against Toby, each clenching

their fist and waiting for the other to make the first move.

The tension builds.  We see it on the faces of Jenny, Flo and

the regulars.  Just then the record on the juke ends and the

needle scratches off.  There is the crackle of a police radio as

the door to the diner opens and SHERIFF VIRGIL POTTER walks in.

The tension eases. Toby, mindful of the sheriff, steps closer to

Bobby and whispers menacingly into his ear.

Toby takes Jenny by the arm and pulls her out of the diner.

Bobby holds his hand to his face to cover the cut on his

forehead.

Ed and Boyd toss a few bills on the counter and exit.  Flo

stands near the cash register with Bobby's beer.

Bobby pays for the beer ($1.75).  Flo opens the register.

The Sheriff reaches around the counter for the pot.

Just as the words leave Flo's mouth the Sheriff spills the pot.

It shatters against the floor spilling hot coffee everywhere.

Flo runs over to him.

As Flo bends to wipe the counter, Virgil touches her intimately.

While everyone is distracted Bobby notices that the register

drawer has been left open.  He looks around to make sure he is

not being watched.  Slowly he eases his hand towards the drawer.

It gets closer and closer.  As he is about to grab the money

there, the cat - the same one he kicked away earlier - hisses

and claws at his hand.  Bobby jumps back startled.

With the Sheriff occupied, and the Mexican Jose mopping the

floor, Bobby exits.

EXT. PHONE BOOTH - STREET - DAY

BOBBY begs on the phone.

Bobby slams the phone.

EXT. SAME PHONE BOOTH - STREET - DAY

BOBBY is on another call, circling a local sports page betting

line.

Bobby, frustrated, clicks off.

INT. MR. ARKADY'S OFFICE - DAY

It is the kind of cheesy, temporary office one would expect to

find in a Las Vegas apartment building overlooking the DOWNTOWN

STRIP.  MR. ARKADY, dressed in a silk suit with conspicuous

jewelry, sits behind his desk eating lunch and cleaning his

nails.  SERGEI, his goon in a shiny polyester shirt, hovers over

his boss helping feed and manicure him.  These are the TWO MEN

from Bobby's earlier FLASHBACK.  They are dangerous in an

endearing way.  Sergei answers the phone. In the background is a

very voluptuous female, obviously from the Middle East. SOFIA.

Mr. Arkady doesn't acknowledge him.

At this Mr. Arkady's head springs up.  He snatches the phone

from Sergei.

EXT. PHONE BOOTH - STREET

BOBBY on the phone.

Mr. Arkady cleans his nails completely disinterested in what

Bobby is saying.

Sergei looks like he's ready to pound heads.

Bobby suddenly feeling suspicious.

Sergei snaps a pencil he's holding in his hand, which goes

flying by Arkady's head, forcing him to duck.

There is a sharp silence at the other end. Bobby waits.

He hands the phone back to Sergei.

Arkady motions Sergei to come close.

EXT. STREET - DAY

BOBBY, desperate, stares at the bandage of his wounded hand. It

throbs, holding the hand to his ear.

We hear an OPERATOR'S VOICE:

Bobby slams the phone against the hook.

He marches from the phone booth, past an old HARDWARE STORE. The

phone falls from the hook and we hear a recorded voice:

In the store window, Bobby notices a set of garden shears for

sale.

EXT. EMPTY STREET - LATER DAY

BOBBY walks a bit going nowhere in particular.  Looking at his

watch thinking of Mr. Arkady, he shields himself with one hand

from the sun.  At the side of an old building, in the bit of

shade it throws, he twists at the beer cap which sticks and

won't turn.  Bobby tries again twisting harder -- too hard -- as

the cap jerkily twists off, cutting into his hand as it rotates.

Bobby yells in pain.  At the same time the beer comes foaming

from the bottle and spills onto his sleeve. The bottle slips

from his wet fingers and crashes on the ground, emptying. He

clutches his bleeding hand, pissed.

As if in answer, a JEEP drives by on the main street. GRACE

looks pretty hot up there in the driver's seat, her eyes, behind

sunglasses, flicking over him but not acknowledging him as she

keeps going.

Bobby's eyes throw back his own hostility at her, but

unfortunately she misses it, as he now notices -- across the

street -- a well-kept building with the most modern decor and

signage, reading "McKenna's Realty Co."

He thinks about it, in a quandary.

EXT. HIGHWAY/CAR - DAY

In a rented convertible, we now see SERGEI racing across the

desert. His jacket off, a man with a mission. He glances at his

watch, eager to get to this "fucking hole in the wall" which is

somewhere on this incomprehensible American map he holds in one

hand.

INT. JAKE'S REALTY OFFICE - DAY

BOBBY squats, looking at a real estate model of a desert

development. JAKE smiles.

Jake shakes his head as if he doesn't understand.

For a moment Jake stares quietly at Bobby.

A pause.

For a moment the two men stand silent.  All we hear is the

ticking of a grandfather CLOCK that stands in the corner.

Jake walks the office thinking.

EXT. MCKENNA HOUSE - LATER DAY

BOBBY stands on the porch talking to GRACE through the screen of

the front door.  The look on his face is sincere.  Hers is

skeptical.  We see the action take place as we hear Jake's V.O.:

She's not surprised.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

GRACE'S JEEP cuts hard across the desert.  Grace has a wild,

excited look on her face.  BOBBY sits next to her looking

somewhat nervous.

EXT. DESERT - LATER DAY

GRACE has stopped the JEEP on a plateau.  BOBBY sits beneath its

shade while Grace walks in the sun seemingly unaffected by the

heat. VULTURES swoop above.

JAKE'S V.O. ends.  The scene is now synch with real time.

Grace sweeps her hand before her across the expanse of the

desert. The vultures are very much a part of this landscape.

Grace steps to the edge of the plateau.

We see Bobby behind Grace.  He stares at her standing on the

edge of the plateau.  He rises and walks towards her slowly, but

with deliberation.

Bobby now stands a few feet behind Grace.  She kicks a rock and

watches it sail over the lip of the cliff into the nothingness

below.

Bobby tenses himself.  Sweat forms on his brow as he stands

directly behind Grace with his hands extended before him.  They

hover just below her shoulder blades ready to push forward.

Suddenly Grace wheels.  Startled by Bobby she almost falls over

the edge.  Bobby grabs her, her weight still going back.

Grace's life is literally in his hands.  She looks down at the

ground far below, then up into Bobby's eyes.  She shows no fear,

but instead wears a curious smirk.

Bobby hesitates, then pulls Grace close and kisses her with

great ardor on the lips.

EXT. APACHE LEAP - DAY

On a blanket on the ground, BOBBY and GRACE make love quickly,

hotly, her dress pulled up, his pants down. But Grace is

troubled and pulls out, further frustrating Bobby.

Her eyes withdraw into another dimension, as she hikes her dress

back up. Bobby comes out of his own head, feels the distance

between them.

He finishes relieving himself behind a tree, puts his pants back

on.

The dominoes are tumbling for Bobby.

Bobby is quietly stunned. A whole world has opened up to him;

and he isn't sure yet where the story ends. There is some force

at work here, beyond his control.

She looks at him.

The words hang there, thick between them.

Bobby's eyes widen in hope.

Spoken almost innocently, it hangs there between them. A

silence.

Grace lays her hands on Bobby, starting to caress him. He

bristles and freezes with fear and disgust.

He abruptly pulls away.

Grace rises, covering her nakedness, shooting a hand to his

face, like she did when she read his fortune.

He's mesmerized. Then:

Bobby pauses, terribly torn.

He turns away, towards the jeep. Grace has a tone of desperation

in her voice.

Bobby walks past the jeep, on his way back to town alone.

Bobby doesn't look back. Her eyes drift backwards into her

solitude.

EXT. DESERT/ALONG THE ROAD - LATER DAY

BOBBY walks through the desert parallel to the road, still in a

rage. Desert insects produce a cacophony of drones, buzzes, and

clicks. A rattlesnake darts off a rock into the brush. A VOICE

whispers to him.

Bobby turns and looks around. Just desert. He continues.

The screen burns a bright white.

EXT. STREET CORNER - DAY

In a news pot, further down the street from where he was first

seen, the old, BLIND MAN sits with his dead DOG, speaking as if

into camera, sipping on a Dr. Pepper.

BOBBY is now revealed standing next to the blind man, and we

realize the blind man has been talking to him all along. Bobby

sips a Dr. Pepper as well.

Bobby noticing now all the little NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS that the

Blind Man keeps around him in a sort of inchoate stall.

A POLICE RADIO crackles, Bobby tensing.

Bobby is clearly unnerved by this. Suddenly the blind man

stands, pissed and powerful, sniffing the air with the police

radio in it.

As SHERIFF POTTER cruises by, glancing at Bobby shrinking. The

car goes on up the street.

It sounds demented. Bobby, checking him out to see if he's

really blind, walks quietly around him during this monologue and

peeks over his glasses trying to see the blind man's real eyes.

Although he thinks the Blind Man thinks he's on the other side

of him, the Blind Man fools him by suddenly swivelling around

and cranking a gob of spit into Bobby's face as if Bobby were on

the other side.

Bobby, pissed, wipes the spittle from his face.

Bobby starts to walk away. The Blind Man rattles his tin cup.

EXT. STREET - DAY

BOBBY, depressed, is heading towards Harlin's gas station,

passing JENNY sitting on a corner drinking a soda, almost as if

waiting for him. She runs to him, and follows him, as somewhere

a POLICE RADIO crackles and buzzes.

From OFF CAMERA we hear TOBY.

Toby moves menacingly up the street towards Bobby.

Toby and Bobby square off, sizing each other up and preparing

for a violent confrontation.  Just as the two are about to clash

we hear the voice of SHERIFF POTTER from OFF CAMERA.

The two men freeze in their tracks, as Potter drives up fast.

Toby grabs Jenny by the wrist and literally pulls he along.  As

she goes she yells back to Bobby.

Toby points a vicious finger at Bobby.

Toby and Jenny exit leaving Bobby and the Sheriff alone. Bobby

would also like to exit fast.

Bobby has no choice. He gets in.

JAKE drives up in his GOLD CADDY. His windows whirr down.

He eyes Bobby.

He drives off. The Sheriff drives on.

The Sheriff looks right through Bobby, who knows this is more

than a conversation. He pulls up to Harlin's garage. Bobby gets

out.

With this thinly veiled threat, the Sheriff drives on. As Bobby

watches, feeling the pressure to get out now while he can.

EXT. HARLIN'S GARAGE - LATER DAY

DARRELL is cleaning his tools.  Bobby's MUSTANG sits prominently

in the car bay, washed and gleaming, as BOBBY walks up.

Bobby is in a rage.  He turns to leave and walks a few paces.

He sees a WRENCH lying on a table.  For a second his mind reels,

then he snatches up the wrench and turns ready to smash it down

on Darrell's head.  He stops cold.  Because ol' Darrell holds a

CROWBAR in a batter's stance ready to smash it onto the Mustang.

Darrell pulls back the crowbar, ready to swing.

Darrell lays the tip of the crowbar on the hood of the car, and

drags the tip of the bar across the hood leaving a long scratch.

Darrell begins to laugh. Bobby, desperate, looks to the trunk,

thinking of his gun in there.

His POV -- the trunk. A FLASHBACK of the GUN goes through his

mind.

Using his TRUNK KEY, he tries to open it but realizes the lock

has been changed.

Darrell starts to laugh. It is a repetitive, almost demonic

laugh that grows louder as the camera slowly dollies in on

Bobby's anguished face.

EXT. STREET - DAY

As BOBBY steps out into the glaring sun, he notices down at the

other end of the town, GRACE'S JEEP parked right outside the

SHERIFF'S OFFICE, empty.

Presently, GRACE and the SHERIFF walk out TALKING, and she gets

in, says a few last words and drives away.

Bobby backs around a corner into a sidestreet. Is she selling

him out? He's very confused, turbulent.

INT. BUS DEPOT - LATER DAY

BOBBY enters the BUS DEPOT.  The interior is poorly lit.  There

are a few benches for people to wait on, but they sit empty.

Old, faded travel posters hang on the wall.  A bored FEMALE

CLERK is behind the counter.

The clerk is a little put off by Bobby. He seems delirious. She

goes through her schedule looking for a bus.

Bobby counts his money.

Bobby starts to walk away. Suddenly he turns, runs back at the

clerk, proffers his money, half-crazed, near tears.

He's so desperate and in her frightened but neutral expression,

Bobby experiences the only compassion he ever finds in this

whole town.

her sane tone reminds Bobby of how far down he's come. He

shrinks, suddenly ashamed of himself. She takes the cash on the

counter, hands him a ticket.

She nods, puts a "closed" sign in the ticket window, disappears.

EXT. BUS DEPOT - LATE DAY

We hear the crackle of the same POLICE RADIO again, OFF CAMERA,

as BOBBY walks out of the depot. ticket preciously held in his

hand, and suddenly reels as he sees SERGEI, about a 100 yards

down the main stretch, slowly rolling into town in his

convertible, looking for guess who.

INT. SERGEI'S CAR - SIMULTANEOUS

BOBBY turns away, but not fast enough. SERGEI spots him, hits

the pedal.

EXT. MAIN STREET - SIMULTANEOUS

BOBBY, ducking around a corner, hears the brief "Whoop" of the

sheriff's POLICE SIREN. He glances back.

His POV - sure enough, the SHERIFF'S having a field day. He's

just pulled SERGEI over. At this distance, we catch snippets of

conversation as the Sheriff ambles from his car, checking

Sergei's out-of-state plates.

We pop in closer to their conversation -- Bobby relishing this

in his mind's eye. Sergei is constantly looking off to where he

last saw Bobby. But the Sheriff, strangely, pays no attention to

these looks.

Down the street, Sheriff Potter is holding up a concealed GUN.

Sergei looking Bobby's direction.

Sheriff cuffs Sergei and sticks him in the police car.

Bobby can't help smiling as he turns away to the SODA MACHINE

seen in an earlier scene.

He comes up with the change the bus clerk left him and, dying

for a drink in this heat, inserts the coin. Though still under

considerable pressure from all sides, this lucky break with

Sergei seems like it might be the beginning of something new

today -- some luck.

The icy cold soda bottle shoots out. Bobby raises it to his

lips, about to taste it, about to relax for once. Violently it

explodes out of his hands as he doubles over in blinding pain

from a KIDNEY PUNCH. He stumbles forward into the soda machine,

gasping. The legs of his assailant are close to him, but the

face is unseen.

Bobby doubles his agony as his bandaged left stump takes the

brunt of the blow into the machine, re-opening the wound. Blood

starts to seep through the bandage.

Bobby crumples to the ground as TOBY now towers over him with

his fists curled and a snarl on his lips.

JENNY comes running up the street.

Jenny runs to Bobby and cuddles him where he lays.

Bobby sees his bus ticket on the ground.  He grabs for it, but

Toby beats him to it.

Toby sticks the ticket in his mouth and chews it up whole.

Toby's words drift to Bobby from a million miles away.  The

world around him is like a dream, or a nightmare.  A primal rage

wells inside of Bobby that rises up in a howl as he swings the

soda bottle up out of nowhere across Toby's head, smashing him

backwards. Then he lands blow after blow with his right hand on

the boy's face and head.

Jenny screams:

Jenny grabs Bobby's arm, literally hanging all her weight on it,

stopping him from striking Toby again.

Jenny sinks to the ground and cuddles Toby.  Bobby stands.  He

looks at Toby, then at his bloodied knuckles in disbelief. His

bandage is soaked with his own blood, but his adrenaline numbs

the pain.

She wails in the background as he backs away, around the corner,

into Main Street, crossing to where the PHONE BOOTH is.

EXT. PHONE BOOTH - LATE DAY

BOBBY is on the phone.

INT. MCKENNA HOUSE - SIMULTANEOUS

GRACE, in the kitchen, is also on the phone.

Pause.

Grace bites at a nail and fidgets, but says nothing.

She quickly hangs up the phone.

Bobby also hangs up the phone, an unreadable expression on his

face.

INT. MCKENNA LIVING ROOM - LATE DAY

JAKE sits in an easy chair reading a paper.  Puffs of smoke from

his pipe rise from behind the paper and hang like a cloud over

his head.  GRACE stands in the doorway, body stiff and arms

crossed, staring at him.

Grace has no answer for that, so she says nothing.  A long

moment passes, then:

Jake lowers the paper, looks at the drapes.

Grace stares at the CHAIN now visible around Jake's neck that

disappears under his shirt.  She knows that hidden there is a

key, and she fixes on it intently.

EXT. DESERT - EVENING

The SUN is setting. It strikes the horizon sending a ripple of

golden light through the sky.

EXT. PORCH OF HOUSE - EVENING

A MAN dances in the evening light with a small child in his

arms.

EXT. CORNER OF HOUSE - EVENING

A DOG and CAT huddle together in sleep.

EXT. POLICE STATION - EVENING

SHERIFF VIRGIL POTTER is tossing horseshoes with his DEPUTIES.

EXT. MCKENNA HOUSE - EVENING

GRACE watches the sun going down outside her house, cradling

herself in her arms. A desert wind gently caresses her.

EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT

The BLIND MAN, along with his dead DOG, sits on the side of the

street.

BOBBY now appears next to the blind man holding two Dr. Peppers.

He hands one to the blind man, takes a sip of the other one, and

offers him his own change.

There's a suggestion of cockiness in Bobby, feeling his luck

coming back with the night. His humour is enhanced by his POV

down the street:

As DARRELL, with his dilapidated truck, readies SERGEI'S

convertible for towing.

The Blind Man slowly lifts his glasses, showing his EYES at

last. Where his eyes should be are scars and dead flesh. An ugly

sight that even takes Bobby back a step.

The Blind Man puts his glasses back on.

Bobby looks at his watch, gets ready to go, drops a coin into

the Blind Man's cup.

Bobby walks away, smiling.

The Blind Man lifts his sunglasses and peers into the cup

out the coin Bobby tossed in.

The Blind Man now stands up and pulls the seeing-eye dog's

harness. The DOG struggles to its feet and they walk off down

the street together.

INT. MCKENNA HOUSE - NIGHT

GRACE stands by the back door staring at the bolt lock. JAKE

yells to her from another room.

For a moment Grace's hand wavers above the lock.  Suddenly, like

a snake striking, her hand shoots out and unlocks the bolt.

Just as quickly she turns from the door and heads to the

bedroom.

EXT. YARD - MCKENNA HOUSE - NIGHT

A LIGHT is on in the bedroom window.  After a moment it dims and

the house is dark, silhouetted against the horizon by moonlight.

BOBBY steps into frame, carrying an iron pipe.

INT. MCKENNA HOUSE/BEDROOM - SIMULTANEOUS

We start close on GRACE -- a KEY slapping against her buttocks

as bedsprings groan.  We reveal Grace copulating on all fours

with JAKE from behind.

He hits her. Harder.

In a strange flashback of his mind, he now sees Grace's MAMA

beneath him, receiving his punishment.

He stops, abruptly. He can't go on. Fear coming into his eyes.

He starts to whimper, begging for his punishment and/or

forgiveness.

He drops down, burying his face between Grace's legs.

He hides there from the world that he has created, crying to

himself.

Grace has an unreadable expression, but that's certainly not a

new occurrence in their strange relationship.

INT. MCKENNA HOUSE/BACKDOOR - NIGHT

The knob of the backdoor twists and the door opens.  BOBBY slips

quickly through the space and into the house quietly closing the

door behind him.  It is nearly pitch dark, and he has no

bearings.  He steps gingerly through the hall, but in the

darkness he bumps into a table nearly knocking over a lamp only

to catch it just before it crashes into the floor.

INT. MCKENNA HOUSE/BEDROOM - SIMULTANEOUS

JAKE hears the noise.  He raises his head and cocks an ear to

the air. She knows who it is, and is concerned; he's too early.

Jake climbs out of bed, throwing on some pants, reaching into a

drawer in the chest of clothes, pulling out a small dark

metallic OBJECT.

He goes to the door. She follows, tries to block the door.

He maneuvers her aside and slips out the door into the corridor.

INT. LIVING ROOM/MCKENNA HOUSE - SIMULTANEOUS

Crowbar in one hand, BOBBY makes his way slowly through the

living room, banging against the edge of a table. He hops

silently in pain, then waits at the door to the next room and

listens.  Hearing nothing he slowly pokes his head into the

darkness.  A moment later Bobby backs from the door and we see

the barrel of his own black .9mm BARETTA pressed against his

forehead.  JAKE appears now, backing him into the living room.

He switches on a LAMP.

Jake continues to press the gun to Bobby's head.

INT. HALLWAY - SIMULTANEOUS

GRACE makes her way down the hall in a nightgown, and now hides

in shadow, listening.

INT. LIVING ROOM - SIMULTANEOUS

INT. HALLWAY

GRACE'S eyes get real narrow and angry.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Jake is silent.  He takes his time thinking.  Finally:

INT. HALLWAY

GRACE, distressed, starts backing off towards the bedroom.

INT. LIVING ROOM

BOBBY stares at the automatic in JAKE's hand.

Jake laughs, a "don't even think about it" look.

Bobby holds up his eight fingers with a "you try" look. Jake

shrugs. Bobby points to the crowbar on the carpet.

Bobby turns and walks towards the bedroom. Jake follows into an

adjoining room.

Bobby turns to Jake, who is suddenly extremely upset.

INT. HALLWAY

GRACE returns to listen. This thing is like a seesaw battle of

wills.

INT. LIVING ROOM

JAKE has come right up on BOBBY in a rage.

Suddenly Jake swings his arm, clipping Bobby across the side of

the head with the pistol and opening another bloody gash.

Bobby crumbles to his knees, crying out.

Jake suddenly grabs Bobby by the hair, forcing his face back and

smearing his lips with his own in a vengeful kiss. The blood

from Bobby's wound runs down to his lips and mixes with Jake's

lips.

He pulls back the hammer on the gun and levels it at Bobby's

head. Bobby sees it coming, plays his last card on his knees.

INT. HALLWAY - SIMULTANEOUS

GRACE listening.

INT. LIVING ROOM - SIMULTANEOUS

Like an old rag, JAKE gradually soaks all this up becoming

heavier with the weight of the knowledge.

A beat. Jake stares down at Bobby on the floor.

Bobby slowly stands.

Bobby goes.

INT. HALLWAY - SIMULTANEOUS

GRACE bolts back to the bedroom, the camera following her as she

flies.

INT. BEDROOM HALLWAY - NIGHT (MOMENTS LATER)

BOBBY walks it. His POV -- the door. Every step seems freighted.

INT. BEDROOM - SIMULTANEOUS

GRACE is in a quandary. How many seconds before Bobby walks in

to kill her? Or can he really kill her? She's not sure.

She looks around the room frantically. Picks up a lamp, puts it

down. She looks quickly through her closet, rummages below in

the boxes. Suddenly she finds it.

A dangerous looking Indian HATCHET with a feather hanging off

its bindings. It's a formidable piece of iron, quite capable of

splitting a skull or impaling flesh.

Grace hears the footsteps just outside the door. She runs behind

the door.

A moment later, the bedroom door creaks open and BOBBY quietly

enters, approaching the bed. We sense the doubt in his eyes as

to whether he can kill her.

In a reverse POV, Bobby sees the outline of Grace in the bed as

victim...closer, closer.  He now lifts the edge of the bedcover

but sees a blanket bunched up to resemble a human figure.

He suddenly hears a foot fall behind him, then he feels her

presence. He spins.

She's

hands.

His eyes, locked in an eternal moment.

Her eyes, the hatchet.

INT. HALLWAY - SIMULTANEOUS

As JAKE, anxiously torn, waits, there is a LOUD CRASH, followed

by SOUNDS of struggle, of murder, of death. Then...

It is a desperate cry for help. Jake can't help himself. He

breaks into a roaring run down the hall to save his beloved.

INT. BEDROOM - SIMULTANEOUS

JAKE bulls into the bedroom. It's a mess, furniture overturned,

sheets and blankets all over the floor. The lights broken.

Waiting for him, face down on the floor, is BOBBY'S BODY in a

pool of liquid. A broken bottle lies nearby. Bobby's body heaves

in its final death throes, and then shudders quiet...  Over

there, by the bed, is GRACE, who still clutches the HATCHET.

The look on her face is pure shock.

Jake eyes the weapon in Grace's hand.

Grace eyes the gun in Jake's hand.

What choice does Grace have?  She lets the hatchet clank to the

floor.

behind Jake, the lifeless BOBBY rises up from the floor, very

much alive, and clobbers Jake with a golf club. Jake is

staggered, but he's one tough old customer as he manages to spin

slowly, gun still in one hand, as if to fire.

Before he can, Grace grabs up the hatchet from the floor and

drives it straight into his back.

He gurgles, stunned from both sides, but it's like trying to

kill Rasputin. He still has the gun as Bobby jumps him from the

rear, trying to get his neck in a chokehold. The gun FIRES once,

discharging into the wall. The hatchet is ripped from his back.

Grace watches as the two men bang into the walls in a rugged

rodeo-type fight, Jake seeking to dislodge Bobby off his back.

An expression of fear and excitement in her eyes.

Finally the two men go crashing to the ground, rolling around,

Bobby maintaining his stranglehold, but calling to her, his

hands full.

Jake's eyes rolls up at her like a beaching whale, pleading for

help.

She commits. Jumping into the fray, it's not clear whose side

she's really on as the three of them roll across the floor,

strangling, biting, hitting, spitting, scratching, gasping. It's

a Guignol, but the pressure from Bobby's forearm is taking its

toll on Jake. Trying to bite Jake, Grace bites Bobby instead,

but then she scratches Jake's face. Jake is grabbing her hard as

Bobby chokes him, trying to use her to leverage himself away.

But she manages to rip herself from his grip and scrambles on

her knees across the floor.

She grabs the hatchet. And stands, moving back towards the two

men locked on the floor. Bobby looks up at her, hatchet in hand,

no longer sure which way she'll go.

Jake, however, gasping for air, eyes bulging, spittle dripping

from his mouth, looks at Grace with some inner certainty that

she will help him. He gasps the words.

Grace stands there, deciding, the power of the hatchet in her

hands. She raises it suddenly over the two men.

It flashes downwards. Deep into the gut of her husband Jake,

almost transfixing him to the floor.

In the silence that follows, Jake's eyes roll up to meet hers.

But all she has for him is a cold, distant stare.

Jake's head drops as the life rushes out of him. Bobby falls

back from the body puffing and dripping with sweat.

She doesn't answer, turbulence in her face. He rolls Jake's body

off, upset. She may have made it a murder, but he was part of

it, and he feels the shift in himself. They're both in new

territory, feeling an apartness between them.

Suddenly

grabs the hatchet and plunges it down on Jake, silencing him one

last time.

Grace is pushing the bed away from the wall, slipping down on

her knees and prying open several floorboards.

He doesn't want to get close to Jake. Grace coldly runs over to

his corpse, ripping the chain, key and all, from the neck. The

action pulls Jake's head up, then she lets it thump back on the

floor. She runs back to the floorboards.

The top of a thick steel floor safe is revealed.

Bobby watches -- his whole life, it seems, hanging on the

outcome.

With the key, she opens the safe. Inside are rolled-up bundles

of cash -- in hundred dollar denominations. She looks up at him,

offering it as she reaches in for more. Bobby also gets down on

his hands and knees and grabs more and more, sucked into the

fever of freedom, far more money than he lost at the grocery

store, overcome now with emotions of fear and freedom.

They see each other.

They laugh excitedly and start kissing, rolling in the stacks of

cash, some of which sticks to Bobby's sweating back. The day

didn't turn out so bad after all for Bobby.

As they consummate their violent relationship for the first

time, Jake's lifeless eyes watch them.

EXT. MCKENNA HOUSE - LATER NIGHT

The LIGHT in the bedroom window is low candlelight, but we sense

something watching them. GRACE's silhouette moves across a

window.

BOBBY now comes out of the house, cautious, walking down the

driveway.

He stops, thinks, and walks back to open the hood of GRACE'S JEEP.

He reaches into the ENGINE and disconnects something, then

closes the hood and walks on.

EXT. HARLIN'S GARAGE - NIGHT

BOBBY walks up to the SHACK near the garage and bangs on the

door. A light goes on in the window.  DARRELL shouts out.

Bobby, in a hurry to get back should Grace pull any tricks,

bangs and kicks against the door. Darrell yanks the door wide.

Bobby pulls the money from his hip pocket and hands it to

Darrell.  The mechanic fingers it suspiciously.

Bobby is ready at first to explode, but then just laughs out

loud. You got to give it to a guy like Darrell. He holds up a

$100 bill.

Bobby pulls the hundred back from Darrell's grasp.

Bobby hops in the car, a free man. As Darrell glares at him,

bewildered and frightened at the same time.

EXT. MCKENNA HOUSE - NIGHT

BOBBY turns the MUSTANG up the drive. THE HEADLIGHTS cut the

darkness and land on an empty patch where Grace's jeep had been

parked.  Bobby jumps from the Mustang and runs around

frantically. His look is devastated. He falls to his knees,

about to sob when:

GRACE opens the front door and pokes her head out, putting out

several suitcases.

EXT. MCKENNA HOUSE - LATER NIGHT

Bobby's MUSTANG is backed towards the front of the house.  We

see a silhouette of BOBBY and GRACE carrying something wrapped

in a BLANKET and dumping it in the trunk.

EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - NIGHT

A lone pair of HEADLIGHTS illuminate the night as the Mustang

cruises through the dark.  As the lights brighten the screen we:

INT./EXT. MUSTANG - NIGHT

GRACE sits next to BOBBY peering out the windshield, clutching

the money in a backpack. She's humming an Indian song.

A SIGN illuminated by the HEADLIGHTS.  It reads:  YOU ARE

LEAVING SUPERIOR.  THANKS FOR VISITING.

Grace lets out a scream of joy, leans over and hugs him.

The MUSTANG begins to swerve along the road.

She gives him a funny look.

She responds with a luminous smile.

He looks back at her with trust and love in his eyes.

Just then a HEADLIGHT rakes them from the rear as we hear,

again, the ominous crackle of a POLICE RADIO and the short

brutal "Whoop" of the siren, as Sheriff Potter's VEHICLE rolls

up quickly behind them. Grace's face is caught like a surprised

deer in the headlamps.

Bobby is in a bind. The siren whoops again. The lights flash to

highbeam.

But even Bobby has trouble believing that as the POLICE VEHICLE

pulls out sharply alongside his and SHERIFF POTTER motions to

him aggressively to pull over on the shoulder.

She seems to be panicking. Bobby pulls over.

His vehicle pulled up on the shoulder in front of them, the

Sheriff gets out, shining his power flashlight into their faces.

Bobby has no time to react as the Sheriff is suddenly there at

his window, jerking his door open, angry. A GUN in his hand,

pointed at them, his eyes on Grace.

Bobby looks at her. He cannot believe what he just heard.

Grace knows the jam is up.

A pause. Virgil wants to kill her, but he also wants her back

badly.

She ignores him. Her attention on the backpack with the money

between her legs -- the gun is there, inside an outer flap of

the bag.

His flashlight on the four suitcases in the backseat. She

doesn't have an answer to that one.

She gets out of the car on her side, comes around to him, the

pack of money slung on her shoulder, hard to see in the dark.

The Sheriff, deeply wounded, casts a hot vicious gaze on Bobby.

Bobby gets out of the car, misunderstanding the situation.

The Sheriff snaps and smashes Bobby with his flashlight,

knocking him to the ground, kicking him again and again,

gathering the psychic force to murder him. Grace tries to

approach.

Bobby in bloody agony. Grace stunned that Virgil would reveal

this now publicly.

Grace plunges into the pack, pulls the gun and shoots Virgil

across the car in the gut.

The Sheriff flies back onto the road, stunned, not realizing

what's happened.

Bobby watches unbelieving as Grace quietly steps up over the

Sheriff.

She puts the next round in his nuts, a modern fury enacting

ancient wrath.

The Sheriff is wide-eyed, dying in shock. Grace then fires right

at his head in a coup de grace that blows his brains out the

back of his head.

Grace and Bobby both stare, then Grace jumps into action,

dragging the body. She snaps to Bobby.

Bobby stares at her.

EXT./INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT

They're driving. GRACE and BOBBY, wordless, each thinking in

separate worlds. Grace wipes her hands. The bag with the money

between her legs. The Baretta is back in the bag.

A silence. The oncoming road.

She's yelling, emotionally out of control.

She looks at Bobby, forces him to look at her. Finally:

She drops back in her seat. Tears come.

A pause.

Bobby stares straight ahead at the oncoming road. Can he still

love her? She seems to be reading his thoughts, like she said

she could.

A silence. Two former lovers in the dark of a car moving through

the strangeness of an Arizona desert at night.

The lights of the car fade until there is nothing but darkness.

EXT. CANYON - END SPOT - DAWN

In the vast reaches of a deserted canyon, where VULTURES circle

in a hot white sky, we find the MUSTANG parked at the edge of a

drop. We hear the SOUND of a body being dragged.

BOBBY is giving GRACE instructions as they drop SHERIFF VIRGIL

POTTER'S corpse over a drop onto some rocks 30 yards below.

Bobby pushes him over, his hand hurting. The body crashes below.

It's hard work. They head back for the Mustang, to retrieve

JAKE'S body in the popped trunk. But Grace notices Bobby

glancing at the Baretta now tucked in her waist.

The silence is tense between them, the rocks and gravel

crunching under their shoes as they walk.

She pulls an imaginary trigger on Bobby, mimicking the recoil of

a gun. Bobby is nervous.

Grace smiles.

She stares down at Jake. She can't help feeling some old

feelings. As Bobby walks back to the front of the car, turns off

the annoying radio. He watches as she softly prays over Jake,

whose face is concealed by the blanket in which he is rolled.

Grace leans into the trunk to take his boots when he makes his

move, quickly, closing on her when she's off guard. He slams her

hard in the face, coldly sending her sprawling to the ground,

dazed.

He steps over her and grabs the gun in her waist, checks it.

She puts her hand to her mouth, feels the blood on her finger

tips. She looks at him and laughs a wild crazed laugh that cuts

into Bobby like a knife.

Her eyes go to the gun in his hand and she stops laughing. Her

calm is extraordinary, as if expecting to die.

For a moment, Bobby does nothing, then he slips the gun through

his belt.

Bobby's got a headache now. It's too much to understand, too

much talk. Too much history has taught him to doubt.

The expression on Grace's face changes as rapidly as the desert

weather, a coldness passing over and through her.

Keeping a wary eye on Grace, Bobby starts hauling Jake out of

the trunk.

He wrestles Jake up to a sitting position. He grabs a can of

beer from a warm six-pack in the trunk and shoves it into a

pocket of Jake's coat.

Grace takes his boots.

They lift the corpse, and with great effort, haul it towards the

edge of the drop. As they pause on the way, Bobby, wary of

Grace's strange coldness, tries to soften the blow of

separation.

They lift Jake again, and move to the edge.

He props Jake at the edge, standing, and transfers the weight

onto Grace. Jake's head is on her shoulder.

It seems he might push them both over but instead takes the gun,

wipes it of his prints, and slips it through Jake's belt.

As he takes Jake's weight off Grace and pushes it over the drop.

Grace watches him go, her eyes shifting to Bobby, his back

momentarily to her, also watching. She moves towards him.

Bobby turns, slips on the edge.

He feels a blur of motion, almost like a bird, and he is

falling...falling, his life coming to an end.

Grace is standing somewhere up above, briefly seen. Did she push

him? He doesn't know.

He's stunned as he falls on the rocks next to the bodies of Jake

and Virgil. He screams out in sharp pain. His leg feels broken.

But he is alive.

Grace walks away, cutting it all off, deeply shaken. She must

get away from the past and all these hollow men. She closes the

trunk of the Mustang, gets in the driver's seat, reaches for the

ignition key. Her hand fumbles for it a moment. It isn't there.

She sits there. Bobby is calling from below.

She finally gets out and walks back to the edge of the cliff,

looks down.

She looks. Of course the trunk is closed. She closed it.

Bobby's eyes pass over Jake a few feet away, his eyes staring

upwards in death. They take in the gun still attached to his

waist. He knows the trunk wasn't locked when they took Jake out.

Grace looks down at the drop.  It's a tough descent but she

knows she could make it and get back up as well.

Grace takes a look around.

She starts down the cliff face. As she descends, he talks

deliriously.

Grace makes it to the bottom of the drop, and walks cautiously

towards Bobby.

Can he believe her? She sounds so sincere this time.

She's heading for the body of Jake. And the gun. Bobby knows

that and is already crawling there.

Inching closer.

Closer. They meet at the apex of Jake's corpse.

Grace leans close to Bobby.  He dangles the keys out in front of

her, but she doesn't reach for them. Her eyes go to Bobby. She

reaches for him. At that instant Bobby's hands shoot out and

clamp hard around her.  A sharp gurgle is all that escapes Grace

as Bobby twists the life from her, as Jake leers up at them.

Grace twists and flails in Bobby's hands, but in spite of his

bleeding stump, he holds her like a bear trap holds a grizzly.

She looks at him, trying to protest, shaking her head. Grace's

flailing goes into overdrive. Somewhere in his semi-delirious

state, Bobby's eyes might notice the gun at Jake's waist is no

longer there.

Grace manages one word:

Bobby is in agony as he kills her, part beast, part lover, he

kills that which he loves.

Suddenly, a SHOT is heard. Bobby buckles with the blast, hit in

the side. He kills her with one last wrenching thrust of his

hands, breaking her neck.

Bobby looks down at Jake's gun, which she clutches in her hand,

and sees the hole in his side and the river of blood that flows

from it.  He manages to stand, looks at Jake; their bodies lying

side by side.

Bobby, with great difficulty, claws his way back up the rocks to

the car, his fast-flowing wound staining the white rocks with

blood.

He makes it to the top and, losing more blood, climbs into the

driver's seat. He checks the money in the bag. All there. All

his.

As he pulls a huge clot of blood from his side, the vultures

circle. Perhaps one, smarter than the others, lands close by. It

spooks Bobby but he's okay. He looks in the mirror.

He puts the key in the ignition, the engine comes to life.

Suddenly, the RADIATOR HOSE Darrell installed blows apart

loudly. Bobby knows exactly and immediately what it is as a

cloud of steam now rolls from under his hood. He shakes his

head, frustrated.

He can't help but laugh at his bad luck. As we rise off the

desert floor and take flight with the vultures, eventually

leaving them all as specks of earth in the vast empty canyons of

Arizona.

