Long pause. Torture. Then:

Tresckow slowly hangs up the phone.

Tresckow shrugs, opening a bottle of Cointreau and

pouring two glasses with a shaking hand.

Est. An early morning fog blankets the ground,

obscuring our view. Eerie.

Footsteps echo through the cavernous hallways.

Tresckow marches with purpose through the numerous

security checkpoints. It is a long, suspenseful walk.

He is aware of someone walking up behind him, getting

closer. We think he's done for, but a BESPECTACLED,

MIDDLE-AGED OFFICER overtakes him and whispers:

TITLES: GENERAL FRIEDRICH OLBRICHT - CHIEF OF GENERAL

ARMY OFFICE IN BERLIN.

Brandt is at his desk, writing as always. Tresckow

notices Brandt's pistol sitting within arm's reach. A

clock ticks loudly. Imagine it. Then wait. Finally:

Brandt puts his pen down, stands and salutes, but the

gesture is almost casual. Pure formality.

Tresckow makes a good show of laughing that off.

Clunk. Brandt produces the package, putting it on the

desk in front of him.

Pause. Staying cool, Tresckow reaches for it:

Tresckow freezes, studies Brandt's cold smile.

Brandt sits back, smiles. Does he know?

Brandt's smile fades. We can't decide why. He picks

up the package carelessly. Tresckow stays cool

despite the armed explosive just a few feet away.

And we realize he really did just want a drink. He

knows nothing about what the package hides.

Tresckow reaches out, grabbing the package and:

BANG. The sound of an EXPLOSION O.S. takes us to:

TITLES: TUNISIA, NORTH AFRICA - THE RETREATING 10TH

PANZER DIVISION. 7 APRIL 1943.

Moving rapidly through an olive grove in the

otherwise wasted desert. A column of tanks, trucks

and heavy equipment flow by with a sense of barely

contained chaos. Men dismantle tents from around

others dumping documents into burning oil drums.

In the middle of it we find a tall, handsome young

officer (age 35). He wears an Afrika Korps uniform

complete with Colonel's badges, staying cooler than

the other side of your pillow. He directs men this

way and that, holding back panic.

TITLES: COLONEL CLAUS VON STAUFFENBERG - STAFF

OFFICER, 10TH PANZER DIVISION.

The men calm when they see the Colonel, trusting him.

They turn and watch the formation of planes complete

their turn and bear down, gaining speed. Knees tense,

some jerking from the natural inclination to flee.

They do, despite the menace of the planes' engines

growing louder, meaner...

The confused PILOT takes in the mass of motionless

men below. His finger tenses on the trigger and...

The mob of soldiers breaks - some right, some left -

as the fighters open fire on what had been the center

of their mass. Unable to change course quickly

enough, they spray their lead into the sand.

In that same instant, Stauffenberg drops into his

seat, the Young Lieutenant jams the jeep in drive and

a wave of hot lead misses them by mere feet.

Stauffenberg watches his men regroup, waiting out the

turning squadron. They've got the idea now. He turns

to his Lieutenant who smiles admiringly. But

Stauffenberg's eyes widen. He grabs his Lieutenant's

head and jams it down, revealing a STRAY FIGHTER

coming up from behind. Stauffenberg ducks out of

frame, shielding the Young Lieutenant with his body.

BANG. Blood sprays across the jeep's windshield

before bullets rip it to pieces, leaving only clear

blue African sky... And then the EXPLOSION.

SILENCE. FADE TO WHITE.

TITLES: MUNICH, GERMANY - FIRST GENERAL MILITARY

HOSPITAL. 21 APRIL 1943.

A fast clicking. Heels on linoleum. A beautiful,

dignified woman keeps herself from running. She is:

NINA VON STAUFFENBERG (30), Stauffenberg's wife and

mother of his four children. Beside her is BERTHOLD

VON STAUFFENBERG (38), Stauffenberg's older brother.

They reach the door of a private hospital room just

as A DOCTOR comes out. Awkward pause.

The Doctor wants to argue but Nina's eyes shut him

down. He opens the door and they enter to find:

A mass of mummy-like bandages with only small

openings around the mouth and one eye. The arms and

hands are also wrapped in heavy dressing. No movement

but for the rise and fall of the patient's chest.

Berthold cannot look. Holding back her anguish, Nina

bravely turns to the Doctor. "Well?"

Berthold covers his face. Nina is a rock.

As in: "That will be all." The Doctor leaves. Nina

sits beside her husband. She shows him a photo of

FOUR BEAUTIFUL CHILDREN - three boys and a girl.

Stauffenberg tries to speak but can't. His eye begins

to tear.

Nina removes a ring from her finger, placing it on a

chain with a cross she takes from around her neck. It

is identical to the ring Stauffenberg wore in Africa.

CLOSE ON: The engraving inside the band - finis-

initium [end-beginning]. Nina places the ring and

chain on her husband's chest, her hand lingering. She

cannot hold the tears back any longer. She stands and

turns away, not wanting her husband to see.

Berthold takes her place. Stauffenberg struggles to

speak. Berthold puts an ear to the hole where

Stauffenberg's mouth is - making out his question,

even if we can't. Berthold debates answering, then:

CLOSE ON: That one eye staring at us closes.

Stauffenberg's bandages are gone - a black patch

covering what had been his left eye. The chain with

the cross and ring from Nina hangs around his neck.

ANOTHER PATIENT lies motionless in the next bed.

A man's belongings tell you more about him than he

ever could. Stauffenberg's side of the room is neatly

arranged, books of poetry and philosophy are well

worn. Beside them are his own writings - the print

meticulous and flowing. Up to a certain date. After

that a new, child-like hand has taken over.

He snaps out of his thoughts, holding up his arm.

Stauffenberg nonchalantly tosses the medal into a

nearby bedpan.

CLOSE ON: A field of white. A three fingered hand

enters the frame, gently placing a medal identical to

the one just saw.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL: Stauffenberg, done up in his

finest dress uniform, placing said medal on an

unconscious WOUNDED SOLDIER.

AN AIDE stands behind him, carrying a silver tray

stacked with MANY BOXES containing such medals.

PULL BACK FURTHER TO REVEAL: Stauffenberg stands

between two long rows of beds, each with A WOUNDED

SOLDIER. Those that can respond to Stauffenberg do so

with reverence. The ward is eerily silent.

With only three fingers, Stauffenberg cannot pin the

medals to his men. He has to settle for simply laying

them on a each soldier's chest or a pillow. With each

medal he presents, the task becomes harder to watch.

Suddenly, Stauffenberg freezes, finding himself

looking at THE YOUNG LIEUTENANT - his driver in

Africa. The young man is a mass of bandages, his legs

gone, his face smashed.

CLOSE ON: Stauffenberg's face - the reality of Africa

taking the wind out of him. Over this we hear a

familiar clicking of heels and:

Stauffenberg's boots pound the floor as he rushes for

the door, desperate to get out, barely able to

breathe. At first he does not hear:

A hand grabs his shoulder. Stauffenberg turns, ready

to strike. He stops when he sees the Doctor holding a

small, square box. Another sort medal perhaps?

The Doctor opens the box to reveal:

A GLASS EYEBALL sitting atop a layer of satin,

staring blankly back at Stauffenberg. Creepy.

Beat. Stauffenberg just stares back at the eyeball.

The city sleeps. An unsettling image knowing that, in

war, quiet can turn to chaos in the blink of an eye.

Soft knocking at the front door is further muffled by

heavy black-out curtains. A YOUNG OFFICER enters the

frame, dousing the lights, parting the curtains and

opening the door to reveal a SHADOWY FIGURE on the

stoop.

The figure steps into the half light to reveal his

fresh scars and eye-patch. And from the dark quiet of

the foyer we CUT TO:

Chaos. The air is thick with cigar smoke and harsh

words. A DOZEN MEN - some officers, some civilians -

are fighting bitterly, everyone talking at once.

Stauffenberg enters unnoticed, escorted in by the

YOUNG OFFICER who immediately ducks out again.

Stauffenberg scans the faces in the room. We

recognize Olbricht and Tresckow. With them we find...

A distinguished gentleman in his early sixties:

TITLES: ERWIN VON WITZLEBEN - FORMER FIELD MARSHAL OF

THE MILITARY DISTRICT. FORCED OUT BY HITLER, 1938.

Beside him is a rough-hewn, charismatic man despite

his 59 years. A face millions might follow. He is:

TITLES: DR. CARL GOERDELER - FORMER MAYOR OF LEIPZIG.

RESIGNED IN PROTEST, 1937.

And finally, a grandfatherly sort with surprisingly

kind eyes, sitting outside the fight - tired and

saddened by it.

TITLES: LUDWIG BECK - FORMER CHIEF OF STAFF FOR THE

GERMAN ARMY. RESIGNED IN PROTEST, 1938.

Pause. The conspirators look at one another again,

unsure of how to answer. For Stauffenberg it is a

dreadful revelation.

A depressed Stauffenberg walks down the deserted

night streets. Silent but for the echo of his

footsteps. Eerie.

Across the street, an OLD WOMAN peers nervously out

her window. The instant Stauffenberg makes eye

contact she steps back, drawing the curtains. Afraid.

He approaches a cozy brick cottage - the Berlin home

he shares with his brother, Berthold. He is surprised

when he looks through the window to find FOUR

CHILDREN laughing and playing - the sound of music on

a phonograph. Bittersweet.

In the next house over, he catches sight of a TEENAGE

BOY, the picture of Aryan youth, watching him

suspiciously from the upstairs window. It seems

everyone is watching everyone in Hitler's German.

Stauffenberg comes through the front door, the sound

of the phonograph blaring now. Meet the children:

BERTHOLD (9), HEIMERAN (7), FRANZ (5), VALERIE (2).

They chase one another around the house in their

pajamas making such a racket that the phonograph

skips. (It will do so throughout the scene.) The

children see Stauffenberg and charge, screaming:

He scoops them up, one by one, and kisses them,

instantly putting the day's events behind him.

Berthold follows them into the room, smiling.

Nina nervously fixes her hair in the mirror. LOOK

DOWN TO REVEAL a small datebook with a smaller

monthly calendar in the corner of the page. A red dot

marks one date in particular, followed by black dots

for each day that has passed since. She turns

sideways, smoothing her dress over her belly. In

every way she indicates to us that she is pregnant.

She tucks the datebook under some sundries in her

luggage and rushes down to greet her husband.

We stay in the room, hearing her greet Stauffenberg

O.S. Laughter at children's antics we cannot see. The

phonograph skips. More laughter.

We want to go see them in their happiness. Instead we

linger on Stauffenberg's dresser - neat and orderly.

We focus on a photograph of the family from happier

times.

Beside it is a small box containing a glass eye.

Stauffenberg and Nina dance with one another to the

delight of the children. We gradually PUSH IN tight

on their faces, watching an entire conversation take

place without dialogue. Each has a secret the other

can guess. Stauffenberg looks at Nina, then her

belly, first realizing and then questioning. Nina

smiles and nods. Stauffenberg hugs her, delighted,

but his delight is tainted with worry.

Then the tables turn. Nina looks at Stauffenberg, as

if divining his secret. His face never changes - a

statue with that same tainted smile. In her face we

see slow, grim realization. She may not know exactly

what is going on, but she knows it is something. She

does her best to keep smiling for the children. After

the longest of moments, she nods. "All right." Then

she puts her head on his shoulder, hiding her fears.

It is an important moment. Read it again, taking the

time to picture it in your mind. Then leave it alone.

Done right it's a beautiful scene about a man, his

family and the fate of the world.

Nina reads a story to the children in the adjoining

room - an idyllic scene. The sound of the phonograph

is soft and constant.

Stauffenberg picks at a late dinner, now adept at the

use of only three fingers. Berthold sits across from

him, deeply troubled by whatever conversation we have

just missed. They speak in hushed tones.

He puts a hand on Stauffenberg's arm.

Before Stauffenberg can answer, new music comes

blasting from the phonograph O.S. The unmistakable

sound of Wagner's Ride of the Valkyries.

He is cut off by the appearance of his four children,

all wearing cloaks made of bed sheets, pots for

helmets and brandishing makeshift swords. They charge

into the room, singing loudly and attacking their

father. He does his best to defend himself with one

hand. Their commotion causes the phonograph to skip.

And you'd think that's where it ends. We even pull

back, creating that effect. It takes a moment to

notice the wailing sound we're suddenly hearing is

not on the phonograph. Nina hears it first, then

Stauffenberg and Berthold. Finally the children

freeze and the phonograph skips without their help.

The glasses on the table rattle.

Now we hear the wailing quite clearly. A siren.

The adults herd the children out of the room. Muffled

concussions cause the phonograph to skip frequently,

turning Wagner's masterpiece into a stutter.

The family rushes down the stairs, huddling in a

corner - adults holding shivering children. The bombs

are closer, louder. The Wagner, the siren, the

explosions fray the nerves.

Stauffenberg reaches for Nina in the darkness,

finding her belly. Her hand clamps around his -

around their unborn child.

BOOM. So close the children scream. Dust and debris

fall from the ceiling. The needle rakes the

phonograph upstairs going back to the beginning.

CLOSE ON STAUFFENBERG - on his eye. His thoughts as

the bombs fall all around his home - a moment of

profound realization...

Move across the room to the phonograph, looking down

at the 78 spinning on the turntable. The camera

begins to turn until all the world around us is

spinning and only the record is still. We read one

word of the title of the 78 quite clearly:

Stauffenberg faces the top members of the Resistance.

Tresckow explains even as he studies Stauffenberg,

curious. What does he have in mind?

We end on Goerdeler, a look of concern on his face.

TITLES: REICH WAR MINISTRY - OFFICE OF GENERAL

FRIEDRICH FROMM.

MUTED SHOUTS from O.S. Someone is getting reamed.

Fromm's adjutant, LIEUTENANT FRANZ HERBER - a young,

dedicated soldier - sits at his desk, trying to

ignore the screaming from the other room in between

stolen glances at...

PULL BACK TO REVEAL: Stauffenberg and Olbricht

waiting patiently, sitting across from:

MAJOR JOHN VON FREYEND, a dutiful Nazi whose face we

immediately don't like. He smiles coldly, taking

pleasure in the shouting O.S. He stares at

Stauffenberg, studying him, making us nervous.

Fromm's door finally opens and A BIGGER THAN LIFE

NAZI storms out.

TITLES: FIELD MARSHAL WILHELM KEITEL - HITLER'S CHIEF

OF STAFF.

Freyend stands, holding Keitel's hat and coat for

him. A perfect toady.

Keitel storms out, leaving a pall. Freyend gives

Stauffenberg a last once-over and follows. Beat:

Stauffenberg and Olbricht step inside to find:

TITLES: GENERAL FRIEDRICH FROMM - COMMANDER OF THE

GERMAN RESERVE ARMY.

The haggard Fromm sits at his desk, rubbing his

temples. Stauffenberg and Olbricht share a confident

look. Surely this guy hates the High Command. Without

looking up to see them:

Olbricht hesitates. Fromm looks up.

A car loaded with luggage. Stauffenberg hugs his

children, one by one, before placing them inside.

Then he turns to face Nina. As always, there is much

to be said that they cannot say. She gently touches

the silver chain around his neck, the ring and the

cross she gave him. They embrace tightly and kiss.

She gets in the car, looking at him through the back

window as she is driven away.

Darkness. As our eyes adjust we realize we are in the

middle of the woods. Is this a dream? A nightmare? We

are drawn toward a flickering light in the distance.

From out of the darkness comes a candle held by a

nervous, almost mousy young woman, FRAULEIN VON OVEN.

Walking just behind her is Tresckow. He carries a

small but heavy case in one hand.

They come to a clearing in the woods and find a

strange sight. In the center is a tree stump

surrounded by papers, including the original orders

for OPERATION VALKYRIE, next to a leather valise

marked with the seal of the Reich. The orders have

been meticulously annotated.

Fraulein Oven gasps. Tresckow turns, pistol drawn.

The tip of his barrel comes up just inches from

Stauffenberg's eyepatch. Stauffenberg smiles,

emerging from the shadows.

Wearing white gloves, Fraulein Oven opens the case

Tresckow brought, revealing a portable typewriter.

She carefully feeds a sheet of crisp parchment into

the machine and sets the margins carefully. Pause.

Then she starts typing with remarkable speed.

(Note: The sound of typing runs throughout the scene,

punctuated by the crack of the carriage return - each

time a little louder.)

Stauffenberg and Tresckow carefully pore over the

Valkyrie orders, scribbling copious notes.

Before Tresckow can respond, more papers:

More papers. Tresckow can barely keep up.

CRACK. A carriage return as loud as a rifle-shot.

A truck full of soldiers roars past. Stauffenberg,

Tresckow and Fraulein Oven walk across a dimly lit

bridge on a foggy night in Berlin, stopping in the

middle.

Stauffenberg carries a leather valise with the

Valkyrie orders, Tresckow carries the typewriter

case. They stop at the center of the bridge, looking

around carefully. No one is in sight, but anyone

could be watching from the shadows. Eerie.

Both men smile, a bit taken aback. Von Oven shakes

each man's hand and walks away, swallowed up by the

darkness. When she is gone:

Stauffenberg nods. Tresckow heaves the typewriter

case over the railing and into the water below.

SPLASH.

They watch in silence as the water settles, then:

Pause. A sad smile and nod from Tresckow, a moment

ago he was in charge. Now he has no clearance.

He puts a hand on Stauffenberg's shoulder.

A wild party - a small band, German officers, plenty

of women.

In stark contrast, two GESTAPO MEN sip coffee at a

corner table, keeping a watchful eye on the crowd.

A WAITER carries a tray of drinks to a rowdy group in

the corner who are immersed in the denial common to

Berlin these days. The Waiter serves carefully,

making sure one particular drink goes to:

TITLES: GENERAL ERICH FELLGIEBEL - CHIEF OF THE ARMY

SIGNAL CORPS.

The group toasts and downs their booze.

CLOSE ON: Fellgiebel's smile suddenly fades. He looks

into his glass, his good mood vanishing. He politely

excuses himself over the noise of the rowdy mob and

heads for the bathroom. He looks ill.

Fellgiebel walks to the sink and dumps what is left

of his drink in the basin.

CLOSE ON: Mingling among the melting chunks of ice is

a GLASS EYE staring back at him.

He scowls in the mirror at Stauffenberg, waiting.

Fellgiebel checks the stalls to make sure they are

empty. Stauffenberg collects his glass eye from the

sink, dabbing it dry on a hand towel.

Fellgiebel heads for the door but stops on:

BANG. The door bursts open, startling them both. But

it is only a DRUNKEN OFFICER and a YOUNG WOMAN

looking for some privacy.

The woman laughs. Stauffenberg walks out past them,

leaving Fellgiebel with Hitler's finest.

What first catches our eye is the enormous portrait

of Hitler looming over Stauffenberg's desk.

Stauffenberg sits before a mountain of paperwork,

surrounded on all sides by a flurry of SECRETARIES

and AIDES. He looks up to find:

Olbricht hovering in the doorway with that look that

says, "We need to talk." Stauffenberg clearly doesn't

have the time. He sighs.

The staff instantly exits - a well-oiled machine.

Stauffenberg unplugs the phone.

And the strangest thing - a reaction no one would

suspect - Haeften relaxes, almost sighs, like someone

who has at long last found a home.

TITLES: 6 JUNE 1944.

NEWSREEL FOOTAGE OF D-DAY. Allied forces invade

Normandy. The liberation of Europe has begun.

But this is not the D-Day you learned about in

history class. This is a German newsreel. Nazi spin.

In it, Hitler's forces have nothing to fear.

Haeften and Stauffenberg ride in a sedan.

Stauffenberg is in profile the entire time.

Stauffenberg rubs his forehead. The car stops.

SOLDIERS are waiting outside.

Stauffenberg gets out of the car wearing an ornate

dress uniform and carrying a leather valise. He has

arrived at a meeting of great importance.

He turns to face Haeften directly and we are

surprised to see both of his eyes - for an instant

the young lion he once was. But a closer look is

unsettling - we see the faint scarring, one eye

glowing and alive, the other cloudy and dead.

His glass eye. Stauffenberg only wore it on special

occasions. This is one.

Est. Hitler's forboding southern headquarters.

TITLES: THE BERGHOF. 7 JUNE 1944.

Stauffenberg walks up a flight of wide marble stairs -

at the top he sees a group of WAITING ADJUTANTS

quietly smoking cigarettes - a clique of devoted

Nazis. In the group is Major Freyend, the wormy

officer we saw outside Fromm's office. He watches

Stauffenberg pass, aloof. We hate him.

Just then Stauffenberg is greeted by TWO SS OFFICERS

who move to physically search him - one his body, the

other his valise.

ANGLE ON: Fromm's adjutant, Lt. Herber approaches,

waving off the SS.

The SS officers stand down. Herber and Stauffenberg

share a friendly smile, about to speak when Fromm

walks up on them:

He pauses, clearly caught off guard when he sees

Stauffenberg with two eyes.

Stauffenberg and Fromm enter to the last thing we

would expect. Laughter. Drunken laughter.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL: THE BIG SIX.

Hitler and five men - some of them almost

caricatures, their features so distinct. The first

man we recognize as Keitel - the general who reamed

Fromm. The others we know from history and TITLES:

MINISTER ALBERT SPEER - ARCHITECT FOR THE NEW REICH.

DR. JOSEPH GOEBBELS - REICH MINISTER OF PUBLIC

ENLIGHTENMENT AND PROPAGANDA.

REICHSFUHRER HEINRICH HIMMLER - HEAD OF THE SS AND

GESTAPO.

REICH MARSHAL HERMANN GOERING - HEAD OF THE GERMAN

ARMED FORCES, HITLER'S SECOND IN COMMAND.

Stauffenberg's good eye flickers. "Are you insane?

Normandy is a catastrophe." Another glance at the

situation map shows Allied forces over-running.

But the painted-on smiles of Hitler's nodding cronies

promote the lie. No one has the courage to tell

Hitler anything close to the truth. Somewhere in

their eyes is the fear that someone will.

Fromm is stung - a man of his rank being treated like

a waiter. Stauffenberg steps back, clicks his heels

and salutes, just managing to say:

Hitler half waves, walking slowly back to his seat.

Fromm and Stauffenberg leave.

Fromm escorts a visibly shaken Stauffenberg to his

waiting vehicle. Haeften opens the car door for

Stauffenberg to get in. Fromm leans in.

Is Fromm saying he's in? Is Keitel's death a

condition? Hard to say and meant to be. Before

Stauffenberg can inquire, Fromm slams the door shut

and returns to the madness inside the Berghof.

Stauffenberg leans back in his seat, mentally

calculating his next step.

Stauffenberg puts on his eyepatch before removing his

glass eye. He polishes it with a cloth and now it

stares at him from his gloved hand. A conscience.

We find ourselves in an empty church. Beck is seated

in a pew staring straight ahead. Stauffenberg sits

directly behind him. They can't risk being seen

together. They speak in hushed tones.

The first thing we notice is how weak and ill Beck

looks. He struggles to hide a persistent cough.

Beck knows there is no other choice.

Pause. Stauffenberg knows he's right. The fucking

pressure. He thinks for a moment, then with a sigh:

Stauffenberg shuts up, lowering his head in prayer as

a CLERGYMAN passes. Once they are again alone:

Beck nods, resigned.

As if on cue, Beck loses control of his cough.

Stauffenberg leans forward, handing him a

handkerchief and putting a reassuring hand on his

shoulder until the old man's hacking subsides.

Est. The sound of children at play takes us to:

Once again, the scene idyllic. The Stauffenberg

children play football in the distance. Stauffenberg

himself is out of uniform for the first time since

the hospital, but he does not seem relaxed.

The children kick the ball toward Stauffenberg - the

one sport he can play. He is about to say something

to Nina, but she cuts him off.

Stauffenberg stands, touching Nina's cheek and

kissing her forehead. We stay on her as he joins the

children. She watches them play together, seeing her

husband laughing for the first time in a long while.

Her eyes well with tears - a mixture of happiness and

anguish. Too good to last, too much to bear.

Haeften, Olbricht and Stauffenberg stand around a

table giving their undivided attention to:

TITLES: COLONEL MERTZ VON QUIRNHEIM - STAUFFENBERG'S

REPLACEMENT UNDER OLBRICHT.

He empties the contents of two tawny leather

briefcases onto the table:

Along with a crude drawing covered with calculations

he produces two brick-like lumps wrapped in butcher

paper, two small caps and two thin metal cylinders.

Stauffenberg carefully studies the items before him.

Stauffenberg chews on this, pissed. Then:

A soldier himself, Olbricht is insulted.

Stauffenberg glances at Mertz, sizing him, up.

Mertz's eyes widen. "Me?" But Stauffenberg and

Haeften pick up their briefcases and leave without

another word. Assassins.

Olbricht reaches for the phone and dials.

CLACK-CLACK-CLACK-CLACK-CLACK...

A small, bunker-like room serves as the hub of all

military communications. The walls are lined with

chattering teletype machines and their OPERATORS.

CLOSE ON: One teletype in particular. The words are

clicking by quickly but we clearly make out:

STAND BY FOR OPERATION VALKYRIE...

One SERGEANT HELM leans in, reading it, curious. He

tears the sheet out of the teletype and takes it to:

The officious LIEUTENANT HAANS - officer in charge.

He likes his job and how well he does it.

A SHRILL WHISTLE and a WAILING SIREN take us to...

EXT. BERLIN - VARIOUS - DAY

Shots of scattered elements of the Reserve Army

coming together, taking shape:

RESERVISTS and CADETS, from all walks of life, rush

to their homes, hastily trading their civilian

clothes for uniforms.

TITLES: 15 JULY 1944.

Stauffenberg and Haeften board a waiting courier

plane, preparing for departure. Both are clutching

their briefcases, faces like stone. Stauffenberg is

dressed once again in his ornate, formal attire - his

patch gone, glass eye in place.

EXT. DEUTSCHLAND GUARD BATTALION - BERLIN - DAY

AIR SIRENS wail. A SCULPTED EAGLE AND SWASTIKA loom

over a large pillared stronghold.

From out of the surrounding barracks, RESERVE

SOLDIERS scramble to march readiness, assembling on

the center parade grounds, awaiting orders.

Vehicles move into place along the perimeter. All in

all, a well-oiled machine.

CLOSE ON THE BERLIN COMMANDANT - GENERAL PAUL VON

HASE - issuing the alert signal. AIR SIRENS wail.

RESERVE SOLDIERS scramble into readiness. Vehicles

move into place - a well-oiled machine.

We focus on two officers in particular: MAJOR OTTO

ERNST REMER, Commander of the Deutschland Guard

Battalion, and SECOND LIEUTENANT DR. HANS HAGEN.

Loyal Nazis both.

But Remer doesn't seem convinced. Remember him.

Shots of Stauffenberg and Haeften deplaning/getting

into a waiting car/slowly making their way to their

destination. Finally, they arrive at:

Est. A 625 acre compound hidden deep in the mosquito

infested forests of Wilhelmsdorf. Security is tight -

barbed wire fencing, checkpoints, flak towers,

machine gun nests, trenches, land mines.

TITLES: WOLFSCHANZE - "THE WOLF'S LAIR". HITLER'S

BAVARIAN HEADQUARTERS.

The car carrying Stauffenberg and Haeften arrives at

the first security checkpoint.

TWO GUARDS check identity papers and confiscate

pistols from Haeften and The Driver. Stauffenberg

boldly extends his valise to one of the Guards, but

rather than reach for it, the young soldier snaps to

attention and raises his hand in a Nazi salute, eyes

straight ahead, stone-like. A drone.

After an awkward pause:

EXT. WOLF'S LAIR - VARIOUS - DAY

CLOSE ON STAUFFENBERG'S BAG. A series of JUMP CUTS

follow the bag through the extensive security layers

one must endure before getting to the meeting. ID is

checked frequently. The bags, not once. The men here

are Hitler's inner circle, after all.

Finally, Stauffenberg and Haeften are escorted toward

the bunker where the meeting will be held. Pausing,

Stauffenberg looks back over his shoulder to find:

THE COMMUNICATIONS HUT - through the open door of the

small shack we see a mass of radios and telegraphs. A

LONE FIGURE stands outside, smoking a cigarette.

Yes. And it is none other than GENERAL ERICH

FELLGIEBEL, the man Stauffenberg confronted in the

bathroom at the Officers' Club so long ago.

He and Stauffenberg share a long, intense stare.

Finally, Fellgiebel nods, dropping his cigarette and

crushing it with his boot. He's in.

Stauffenberg and Haeften head inside the impervious

bunker through the heavy steel door.

Stauffenberg and Haeften find themselves in a

cramped, hot, windowless room filled with VARIOUS

OFFICERS waiting around a large conference table.

Silence. A moment later, Hitler enters - Keitel and

Fromm follow close behind. Heels click in unison.

Keitel starts the meeting, but Stauffenberg isn't

listening. While all eyes follow Hitler, Stauffenberg

watches the door, scanning the faces in the room.

Haeften doesn't see him either. Shit.

Stauffenberg silently excuses himself from the room.

We hold on his briefcase. Remember where he left it.

The phone rings. A waiting Mertz grabs it.

All color drains from Olbricht's face.

He leaves. Mertz rolls his eyes and dials a second

phone.

Beck and Goerdeler sit impatiently by the telephone,

waiting for any word on the assassination and

impending coup. When the telephone RINGS:

He presses the receiver tightly to his ear, a look of

concern washing over his face. He turns to Goerdeler.

Goerdeler's reaction is vintage politician. Blank.

CLOSE ON A CIGARETTE. We watch as Stauffenberg

smokes, waits, looks at his watch - the sounds of the

meeting going on behind him. He drops his cigarette

and we see a pile of three more. He has been waiting

while the others deliberate. Finally:

(Note: Intercut between Mertz and Stauffenberg.)

Stauffenberg is furious. He calms himself.

Pause. Mertz looks around, makes sure he is alone.

Stauffenberg hangs up the phone. The moment of truth.

Stauffenberg quietly slips back into the briefing

unnoticed. He freezes:

CLOSE ON: The spot where Stauffenberg left his

briefcase. Remember? Well it's gone.

He looks around frantically. Some officers notice

him. Tension mounts. He gets Haeften's attention.

Before Haeften can answer, Fromm shoots them both a

glare. "What the hell are you doing?"

And like that, the briefing has ended. Stauffenberg

is sickened - the opportunity lost. Hitler exits,

walking right past him. Keitel and the rest file out.

The last to leave is Fromm.

Stauffenberg turns, coming face-to-face with Freyend,

Keitel's hateful toady. He holds the missing

briefcase. For a moment we're sure the jig is up.

He hands it over and leaves.

A military sedan skids to a stop outside the Guard

Battalion headquarters. Olbricht jumps from the car,

racing to get General Hase's attention.

LARGE FORMATIONS of soldiers stand at attention in

the hot sun, awaiting orders.

CLOSE ON REMER (the officer we told you to remember)

standing before the ranks. He eyes Hase and Olbricht

suspiciously, trying to hear what they are saying.

After a moment, Hase addresses the men.

As usual, Lt. Herber sits at his desk and, as usual,

he tries to ignore:

MUTED SHOUTS through Fromm's office door. PULL BACK

TO REVEAL Stauffenberg and Olbricht waiting.

They sit across from, Freyend. A beat later, Keitel

storms out of Fromm's office, his face red with

anger. Deja vu. When Keitel and Freyend are gone:

Herber looks up from his desk with a nervous smile.

Stauffenberg and Olbricht stand, hats in hand.

But Stauffenberg turns to leave without answering.

Stauffenberg stops, glaring at Fromm with his one

eye. He squares his shoulders, clicks his heels

loudly and delivers a downright Nazi-like:

Still managing to make it sound spiteful. He leaves

without being dismissed, slamming the door.

It has been a long day, the Resistance leaders are

all exhausted. Beck, Olbricht, Witzleben, Haeften and

Mertz watch Goerdeler circling a rigid Stauffenberg.

Stauffenberg's lack of respect infuriates Goerdeler.

And the two men look up at the cross in silence.

In these waking hours Berlin appears quite peaceful.

Only the distant sound of shelling reminds us that

the city is surrounded by war.

A tawny leather briefcase sits on a neatly made bed.

Stauffenberg, freshly bathed and wrapped in a towel,

shaves in front of the mirror. For the first time we

see his scars and deformities in full. He looks

himself over, finally focusing on the chain around

his neck, contemplating the small cross and the ring -

its engraving: finis-initium [end-beginning].

Though his face is clean-shaven now, he continues,

slowly running the razor down his throat. Then he

stops, pressing the blade a little too hard and

bringing blood. It almost seems intentional.

CLOSE ON: The box that holds his glass eye, staring.

Stauffenberg has since mastered the process of

dressing himself. JUMP CUTS take us from a wounded

soldier to an officer of the General Staff.

CLOSE ON: His crisp white collar, picking up a trace

of blood from the cut on his throat.

TITLES: 20 JULY 1944. 6:00 AM.

Haeften holds the door for Stauffenberg, stepping

into a military sedan.

For the first time we see Berlin in broad daylight -

the city in ruins. The drive through the rubbled,

smoky streets is particularly eerie today.

TITLES: 7:00 AM.

Haeften and Stauffenberg board a three-engine courier

plane - each carrying a leather briefcase. A moment

later the plane is taking off.

A group of 30 RESISTANCE OFFICERS talk quietly,

smoking cigarettes and waiting anxiously. Many of the

faces we recognize, some we see for the first time.

We notice Witzleben has donned his old military

uniform, looking a little too proud.

Beck looks over the faces of these men, trying to

contain his own fear. His eye catches the door

opening and a MAN IN A DECORATED POLICE UNIFORM

entering the room. We tense.

One by one, the men in the room stop talking, staring

at the police officer. Just as we think it's over:

Helldorf nods. The men breathe a collective sigh of

relief. Some laugh. Many shake Helldorf's hand.

Beck moves to a table covered with maps of Berlin,

Paris and the Wolf's Lair.

As Beck speaks, we see how things should play out...

Stauffenberg and Haeften are driven in a topless

sedan. Each carries his leather briefcase.

Stauffenberg and Haeften quickly get in the sedan -

the concrete bunker just behind him - its steel door

closed. They speed out of frame a beat before a

muffled explosion rocks the bunker - the steel door

bulges but holds fast. Only a wisp of smoke escapes.

SOLDIERS burst into Fromm's office and arrest the

bewildered General without incident.

Olbricht takes Fromm's place and starts making calls.

At least this is how it should happen...

Establishing shots of the idle troops and equipment

as they are once again called into action.

The same soldiers are now storming government

buildings and seizing personnel.

Witzleben and Beck march in with ARMED SOLDIERS.

Goerdeler stands at a radio microphone, reading

passionately from a prepared script with dramatic

gestures painfully reminiscent of Hitler.

The conspirators salute and leave. Beck places both

hands on the table to support himself, coughing and

exhausted. Then he looks nervously at his watch...

Olbricht paces before his desk. Mertz watches him,

anxiously waiting for:

The plane touches down and taxis to a stop.

Stauffenberg and Haeften deplane and immediately step

into a waiting courier car driven by a young, dutiful

Nazi. SECOND LIEUTENANT KRETZ. Remember him.

Even this early, the heat is oppressive.

We watch from a distance as the courier car is

stopped at the outer checkpoint. Once again, the

GUARD carefully examines Stauffenberg and Haeften's

identification and takes their pistols before

allowing the car to pass. We follow.

Est. Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel's office as the

courier car arrives.

Stauffenberg and Haeften are greeted by Freyend who

shows them to:

TWO OFFICERS are already waiting. They stand...

The officer realizes what a faux pas he has made as

soon as he says it. Unfazed, Stauffenberg smiles,

raising his briefcase with his single hand.

Keitel makes a beeline for the door and the others

follow like good sheep. Stauffenberg holds back,

however, attracting Freyend's attention.

Stauffenberg points to the shaving cut on his throat

and the tiny blood stain on his shirt. The cut was

intentional after all.

Annoyed, Freyend motions to the adjoining anteroom.

Stauffenberg nods in appreciation. He motions for

Haeften to follow him. Freyend watches, curious.

Fast on Stauffenberg's heels, Haeften closes the

door. A large portrait of Hitler looms, watching.

Stauffenberg positions himself at a small desk with

his back to the door. He removes a brick of plastic

explosive from his briefcase.

Stauffenberg quickly unbuttons his shirt, taking a

clean one out of his bag and putting it on as:

Haeften assembles a fuse.

He carefully inserts the fuse into the explosive.

The RING OF A TELEPHONE startles us.

CLOSE ON THE TELEPHONE. Freyend answers.

Freyend hangs up, glancing impatiently at his watch.

Neatly dressed again, Stauffenberg carefully places

the primed explosive back in his briefcase. He and

Haeften turn their attention to the second explosive -

assembling the fuse, about to insert it when:

BANG. The door swings suddenly open - stopped short

by Stauffenberg's backside. He nearly drops the fuse.

It's Freyend, of course, trying to peer through the

partially opened door. Stauffenberg hides the bombs

with his body.

Haeften scoops the unarmed explosive into his

briefcase. Stauffenberg motions for Haeften to leave.

Haeften comes out, moving Freyend back with his body

and shutting the door behind him - a charged moment.

Freyend backs down. A little.

Stauffenberg produces a pair of pliers (one handle

specially bent for easier use by a man with only

three fingers). With some effort, he manages to

secure the pliers around the fuse.

CLOSE ON THE ACID CAPSULE OF THE FUSE. The jaws of

the pliers gently squeeze, crushing it. The bomb is

live. There is no turning back now.

Stauffenberg closes his briefcase and opens the door,

greeted by Freyend and Haeften.

Freyend scurries, trying to catch up with Keitel.

Stauffenberg and Haeften lag behind.

Haeften looks down at the briefcase in his hand - the

second, unarmed explosive inside.

Haeften reluctantly takes his leave just as Freyend

turns back, eager for Stauffenberg to pick up the

pace. He reaches for the briefcase.

Freyend seems more than just a little peeved. But

Stauffenberg doesn't notice. He is focused straight

ahead, mentally calculating what time he has left.

The bunker suddenly seems miles away.

Security Perimeter I. Keitel and his men file through

the heavily guarded entrance. Each man holds up his

pass for the GUARDS to inspect. Stauffenberg is last.

Keitel heads toward a wooden structure up ahead -

AWAY FROM THE BUNKER. Stauffenberg is confused.

ANGLE ON: The conference hut. The door and many

windows of the flimsy wooden structure are all open.

Not ideal for generating the deadly air pressure

vital to Stauffenberg's plan. But this obstacle only

seems to strengthen his resolve. He is a soldier

after all. And no military operation goes according

to plan. Making matters worse:

Annoyed but not wanting to arouse suspicion,

Stauffenberg finally acquiesces, handing it over. He

watches Freyend carry the bomb into the hut. Pause.

Stauffenberg looks back over his shoulder to:

Fellgiebel - standing by the communications building.

The man who will get Stauffenberg out of the room

before the bomb goes off. They share a nod. Then

Stauffenberg steps into the hut.

