Two men bolt recklessly through a downtown street. Hunters

hot on the trail of their prey in an urban jungle.

The sidewalk is crowded with people. So is the street. Too

many people, not enough cement. Los Angeles, 1997.

Summer, probably August. 103 degrees. Heat shimmers off the

horizon. Making the sky look peculiar.

The men keep running. Passed a GUY sitting at a bus stop,

watching a television in his lap. YOU HEAR the NEWSCASTER.

The guy pays little attention to the broadcast. He seems

almost bored by it. Like this kind of news is commonplace. Or

he's got more important things on his mind.

Everybody is sweating. Including the two men struggling to

swim upstream in the river of pedestrians.

Their uniforms are freshly pressed. Their shoes just recently

shined. Hair tightly cropped. Faces perfectly shaved. Clearly

men proud to wear the badge of the Los Angeles Police

Department. The guy in the lead is

His partner is JOHN DONLEY, late 20s, eager to prove himself.

He struggles to keep up with Parker. John accidently knocks

over several pedestrians. They give no reaction, except to

pick themselves up and continue on their way.

Parker and John keep charging. Their conversation breathless:

They split-up. The Maitre D', still facing the front doors,

repeats his greeting to no one in particular.

Parker spots Sid 6.7 across the room. Without hesitation the

hunter chases his prey.  Gun out and firing. NOT what you

would call Standard Police Procedure.

Bullets riddle Sid 6.7's table as he dives from his chair. He

lands next to a bowling ball bag, which sits beneath his

table.

John charges from the other direction until a WOMAN gets up

from her chair, standing directly in John's line of fire.

Before she can do so, Sid 6.7 stands behind the Woman,

grabbing her and throwing her across the table into Parker.

CRASH! They tumble to the floor.

In the same movement, Sid 6.7 removes a gun from inside his

jacket and shoots John in the shoulder before he can fire.

John's gun flies from his hand. Sid 6.7 advances toward him.

Parker struggles to his feet. Aims his weapon. Sid 6.7 does

the same, but without looking. BOOM! Parker gets a bullet

through his shooting arm. His wound IDENTICAL to John's.

Parker's weapon tumbles to the floor as his arm goes limp.

Parker charges him wildly, but Sid 6.7 brutally kicks him in

the stomach. In perfect rhythm with the symphony playing in

the background. Parker doubles over, gasping for breath.

Another kick drops Parker to his knees.

He grabs his bowling bag and SLAMS it into John's head,

knocking him out. Sid 6.7 puts John's unconscious body over

his shoulder.

He carries John and the bowling ball bag into the kitchen.

Parker scrambles to his gun, and races after Sid 6.7.

INSIDE THE RESTAURANT KITCHEN

Parker charges through SOUS CHEFS chopping vegetables, who

work undistracted. The Vegetables look plastic.

Parker turns a corner, stopping fast. At the other end of the

aisle stands Sid 6.7, who presses his gun against the head of

a frightened BUSBOY. Sid 6.7 holds the Busboy's body in front

of his own as a shield.

Advancing up the aisle, Parker levels his gun at Sid 6.7 with

his good arm. Now, all work comes to a stop as the Sous Chefs

watch the showdown.

He fires directly through the chest of the innocent Busboy

hitting Sid 6.7.

The Sous Chefs gasp in horror as the Busboy drops through Sid

6.7's grasp to the floor. Dead.

Sid 6.7 stares at Parker in disbelief. Blood is now visible

flowing from a bullet hole in Sid 6.7's shoulder, which was

caused by the same bullet. Sid 6.7's arm dangles uselessly.

His gun lies on the floor.

Parker again pulls the trigger. Click. Click, click. No

bullets.

He takes off around the corner. Grabbing another clip from

inside his uniform, Parker goes after him. Only to stumble

over something. Sid 6.7's bowling bag. Blood flows through

its zipper. You now realize the object inside is NOT a

bowling ball.

Beside the bowling bag lies John's body, which is convulsing.

His hands have been tied to bare electrical wire. John is

being electrocuted. Parker kicks away the wires, but not in

time.

He scans the room for Sid 6.7. Parker has no idea Sid 6.7 is

standing directly behind him. Sid 6.7 grabs Parker by the

throat.

Parker gags, unable to breathe. He then starts to DE

MATERIALIZE from within Sid 6.7's grasp.

John's body also dematerializes as Parker disappears

entirely.

The blood seeping from Sid 6.7's wound stops flowing and

starts retracting into his body. Along with his bone

fragments. His shoulder is healing itself. Right before your

very eyes. We PULL BACK TO REVEAL what you are seeing is

ON A MONITOR

The scene continues seamlessly. Sid 6.7's skin heals over his

shoulder wound once his internal parts are back in their

proper places. No scar whatsoever.

His clothing also returns to perfect condition. Literally, as

good as new. This is known as AUTOMATIC RESETTING.

The previously dead Busboy also Auto Resets. His wound

healing by itself. We PULL BACK FURTHER to reveal the monitor

is one of several

INSIDE THE LAW ENFORCEMENT TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT CENTER

a/k/a LETAC. The facility is a converted aerospace research

building in Pacoima. Funded by government black book dollars.

The look is a mixture of industrial grime and high-tech

sparkle. Banks upon banks of computer equipment. Wires,

cables, conduits, connectors everywhere you look.

In complete disarray to the uninitiated. But to those in the

know, this is the most advanced facility of its kind in the

world.

The building is partitioned into dozens of stations. At each

station, a leading engineer in his field is frantically

readying a prototype for demonstration. Each new technology

designed to help fight the new Cold War... the War on Crime.

The atmosphere is competitive. Voices are loud. Tension,

anticipation in the air. Only a lucky few will have their

inventions approved for production.

LETAC is, quite simply, Los Alamos from 1940 meets Sega from

1994.

At a station in the middle of the room, TWO UNCONSCIOUS

BODIES lie on narrow beds wearing form-fitting skull caps

made of polyurethane.

Each skull cap has 100 acupuncture needles stuck through it

at points designated as neural primes. Each needle is

directly connected to the participant's nervous system.

The tail end of each needle is connected to a fiber optic

wire which leads to one of numerous interconnected computers

surrounding the beds.

Each of these components isn't much to look at on its own.

But together, with the rest of the apparatus, are part of

something very new  a revolutionary law enforcement

training device whose name you read:

VIRTUAL REALITY CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION SIMULATOR

To be perfectly clear, the events you just witnessed

involving Parker, John, and Sid 6.7 took place within virtual

reality, not the real world.

Dozens of small character modules, similar to today's

Nintendo game cartridges, are plugged into .the system's main

console.

Each of the modules bares a name and number, such as MAITRE

D' 1.7 and SHEILA 3.2. There is no character version number

greater than 4.0. Until you see the module labelled SID 6.7.

The simulation timer stops at: 17 hours, 52 minutes, 11

seconds. A clock reads: 3:04:32 PM.

Four observers, two men and two women, watch virtual reality

monitors positioned around the station. One of the men wears

an L. A. P. D. uniform. His name is WILLIAM COX, 40S. His

nameplate reads CHIEF OF POLICE.

One of the women sits by herself in front of a monitor.

Intently following the action on screen. Studying it

clinically. Her name is DR. MADISON CARTER, late 30s.

She is beautiful, and charming, but those qualities take a

back seat to her intelligence. She is one of the country's

foremost authorities on criminal psychology. Her concerns are

empirical. Her quest is knowledge. She has little in common

with the other observers.

The other man is FREDERICK WALLACE, 5Os, Chairman/CEO of

LETAC. Expensive suit. Commanding, powerful. But not as

commanding, or powerful, as ELIZABETH DEANE, 605, the

Presidentiallyappointed Crime Czars

Elizabeth Deane is solely responsible for the funds allocated

to LETAC. As well as which prototypes will move on to

production.

LAB ASSISTANTS remove the polyurethane skull caps from the

two unconscious bodies. The acupuncture needles remain in the

caps. You can now see the faces of the participants:

Parker and John.

Parker lies calmly, his eyes fluttering as he gradually

returns to consciousness. He looks very different than his

virtual rendering:

His hair is long and ragged. His face is unshaven. A scar

across his cheek. A hoop earring in one ear. His outfit a

filthy prison uniform.

John's outfit matches Parker's. Physically, he looks as

cleancut as his virtual rendering. Except that he is

convulsing. Violently.

His flailing appendages repeatedly hit the apparatus around

him. Like an epileptic having a grand mal seizure. It's ugly.

Frightening.

TWO PARAMEDICS burst through the doors and rush to John. The

paramedics inject him. Fibrillate him. Repeatedly.

The simulator's designer, DARYL LINDENMEYER, 40s, high

strung, intense, and brilliant beyond words, stands by the

equipment protectively. He is far more concerned for the

safety of his machines than he is for John's life.

John's body goes limp. His vital signs flat. The Paramedics

record the time of death and cover the body with a sheet.

They begin to assemble a gurney to wheel him out.

After giving Wallace a cold, hard stare -- namely at his hand

stitched lapel, his gold watch, and his diamond-studded

cufflinks, she exits. Wallace follows after her quickly. You

now notice that the chair Dr. Madison Carter had occupied is

now empty. She left a while ago.

Cox remains. Lindenmeyer hurriedly examines the simulator as

if it were his child. There are several scratches, but no

major damage. He looks relieved.

Parker, still not fully conscious, hurls himself at

Lindenmeyer.

He flails his arms wildly. Nearly spasming. This is clearly a

man who should never drink coffee. TWO armed GUARDS, who've

been standing in the background, pull Parker off Lindenmeyer

and throw him to the ground.

Lindenmeyer watches with satisfaction as the guards put

Parker in handcuffs and leg chains.

The Guards back off as Cox helps Parker to his feet.

but I still consider us friends.

He helps Parker toward the exit as he continues having

difficulty with his balance.

OUTSIDE LETAC

The building is heavily-guarded. Razor wire, land mines,

armed sentries. Nobody who shouldn't be here gets anywhere

near here.

Cox leads Parker by the arm to a waiting prison transport.

The two guards walk behind at a distance. Two more by the

transport. The chain between Parker's legs keeps his steps

short.

He starts walking ahead of Cox. Distancing himself.

His voice trails off as Parker turns around, and heads

directly toward him.

He turns back toward the transport. Cox follows. Two armed

GUARDS open the back doors for Parker, then stand poised with

weapons out and ready.

INSIDE THE PRISON TRANSPORT -- REAR

Cold metal benches. No windows. Parker climbs in, the only

passenger. He looks out the open doors to Cox.

OUTSIDE LETAC

Standing outside the transport, Cox puts his hand on Parker's

shoulder.

Behind him, John's body is loaded into an ambulance. The

Guards SLAM the prison transport doors shut.

INSIDE THE PRISON TRANSPORT -- REAR

Parker sits in DARKNESS as the transport begins its trek. The

only light comes from a four inch portal, covered in steel

mesh, through which the Guards can keep an eye on him.

Parker sits in silence.

INSIDE LETAC

Sid 6.7 remains visible on the various monitors around the

room as Lindenmeyer spot checks the simulator.

Wallace enters briskly.

Wallace ignores him as he walks toward the door. On the

monitors, Sid 6.7 starts walking toward you. Into a CLOSEUP.

Wallace stops, staring at a monitor in disbelief.

He exits.

ON THE MONITORS

around the room, Sid 6.7 walks to a pay phone and dials a

number.

INSIDE AN INDUSTRIAL CORRIDOR

Wallace walks toward the building's entrance. His footsteps

ECHO. His cellular phone RINGS.

Click. Sid 6.7 hangs-up. Wallace stops, staring at his phone

in disbelief.

INSIDE FOLSOM COUNTY MAXIMUM SECURITY PRISON

Parker is led into the Inmate Receiving Room at gunpoint. He

is ordered to remove his clothing.

He stands completely naked, arms held out to the sides, as he

is strip searched. Every portion of the body in which someone

could hide something is closely inspected.

Without being graphic, we watch the dehumanizing procedure.

He opens his mouth as wide as possible. Pulls his earlobes

foreword to reveal behind them. Then bends over, hands on the

floor in front of him.

He is scanned with a metal detector. So is his clothing,

which is then returned to him.

INSIDE THE PRISON CAFETERIA

Parker eats at a table with a dozen other inmates. The food

is unrecognizable. The air thick with humidity and cigarette

smoke. Nobody is talking. Just staring. At Parker.

Parker forces down the remainder of his meal, then returns

his utensils to a bin. And heads to the bathroom. All eyes

following Parker's every move.

The other inmates then turn their attentions to a man of

incredible size following Parker. 6' 6", 255 lbs. His face

covered with red scar tissue from burns suffered long ago.

This is BIG RED. He follows Parker into the bathroom.

INSIDE THE BATHROOM

Graffiti covers the walls. Red uses a stained urinal, then

turns to the stalls. A pair of prisonissue shoes and socks

are visible beneath one of them.

Red kicks in the door to the stall. Revealing a pair of shoes

and socks stuffed with a prison shirt. Red hears something

behind him. And turns around slowly.

Parker stands barefooted and shirtless. SCARS are visible

around each arm just below the elbow. You will learn what

these represent momentarily.

Parker is six inches shorter and 60 pounds lighter than Red.

But the punch Parker delivers to Red's face makes you think

it's the other way around.

You HEAR the sound of metal crushing bone. Red is thrown

backwards into the stall. Blood splatters from his mouth,

adding another shade of redness to his face.

Red's teeth stick out of Parker's fist. Parker pulls out the

teeth. He does not bleed. Nor seem in pain. Metal is visible

beneath the surface of his skin.

For the first time, you notice SMALL TATTOOS on the outsides

of his palms. They read: WENTLOW MODEL 17-L, and 17-R,

followed by serial numbers.

Red charges Parker wildly. Parker dodges him like a matador

does a bull. Then brings his fists down savagely on the back

of Red's head. His skull CRACKS. Red drops to the floor.

Parker jumps on top of him, arms around his neck. Choking

him. Red staggers to his feet. His eyes wide. His face now

even redder.

Parker maintains his mechanical grip. Red finally succumbs to

the lack of oxygen. He drops to his knees. Parker does not

relent until he feels the barrel of a gun at the back of his

head.

Parker lets go, dropping Red to the wet, filthy floor.

INSIDE THE PRISON HOSPITAL

The room isn't clean. The technology is outdated. A large,

female NURSE applies epoxy-like sealant to the synthetic skin

on Parker's fingers.

She sandpapers off the excess sealant. Then places his elbow

into an electronic sensitivity adjuster.

She pricks Parker's finger with a pin.

She does so, then pricks Parker's finger again. He grimaces

in pain.

SYNTHETIC BODY PARTS lying strewn around one of the stations

in LETAC the NEXT DAY. It's a good bet this is the same

technology attached to Parker's elbows.

There are also various shapes and sizes of robots, androids,

and other synthetic forms. The most humanlooking ones are

the least functional. The least humanlooking ones, the most

functional.

You follow a remotecontrolled, boxshaped robotic sentry

moving swiftly through an obstacle course resembling a subway

station. It is being operated by CLYDE REILLY, 20s, a

hardware genius who has spent too much time in windowless

rooms.

Hidden from Reilly's view, Lindenmeyer, the software expert

who created Sid 6.7, stares jealously through a narrow gap in

a partition. Trying to contain his anger. And failing.

Especially as...

Wallace enters the station, carrying a bottle of Dom Perignon

and two glasses. Wallace hugs Reilly, who does not return the

gesture.

He pops the cork, and pours their glasses.

He remote controls the robotic sentry to chase Wallace out of

the station. Lindenmeyer can no longer be seen through the

gap in the partition.

INSIDE LINDENMEYER'S STATION

Lindenmeyer storms in angrily. Sid 6.7 is visible on the

virtual reality monitors around the simulator. He's giving

himself a manicure.

Lindenmeyer arches an eyebrow, then picks up a phone and

dials an extension.

PARKER

whose wrists and ankles are cuffed, being led into a Prison

Interrogation Room. Dr. Madison Carter sits at a table, a

VISITOR'S BADGE clipped to her suit. A notepad in front of

her.

The Guard removes Parker's cuffs, then exits, taking up his

post outside the door. The skin around Parker's wrists is

blue where the cuffs dug into his skin.

Parker sits across from Madison. She places a microrecorder

in the middle of the table and presses RECORD.

The Guard pokes his head in with concern.

The Guard quickly shuts the door. Madison turns to Parker.

ON A VIRTUAL REALITY MONITOR

inside Lindenmeyer's station in LETAC, the stunningly

beautiful SHEILA 3.2 appears. In very revealing lingerie.

Performing an outrageous striptease.

INSIDE LETAC

Reilly runs his perspiring finger over the monitor as if he

could touch the contours of Sheila 3.2's body.

He is so aroused, he's shaking. Lindenmeyer, on the other

hand, appears almost uninterested. He's used to the routine.

On the monitor, Sheila 3.2 continues her striptease.

Slowly. Sensually. Licking her lips. Grinding her hips.

Putting on quite a show.

She removes her top, revealing ideal breasts. She fondles her

nipples. As well as the rest of herself.

Lindenmeyer and Reilly continue watching. Reilly can barely

control himself.

Sheila 3.2 is very, very, very good at what she does. A

virtuoso stripper. Reilly is transfixed. Until Lindenmeyer

pushes a button, BLACKING OUT the virtual reality screens.

He rushes out. Sid 6.7 appears on the various monitors next

to Sheila 3.2. He kisses her cheek. Caresses her body. Sheila

3.2 enjoys the attention.

Sid 6.7 continues appreciating Sheila 3.2. As Reilly races

back in, the monitors then all go BLACK.

Reilly, completely out of breath, holds a python by it's

head. He dangles the snake right in front of Lindenmeyer's

face. Terrifying him.

He grabs a large pair of scissors and snips right through the

snake. The half of the snake which drops to the floor stops

moving.

But the half still in Reilly's hand begins REGENERATING a new

tail. Literally growing a new one. Lindenmeyer can't believe

his eyes. He studies the snake closely.

Using Lindenmeyer's scissors, he cuts off the snake's head

and removes a small character module connected to the base of

the neural net. The snake stops moving. It "dies."

He exits. As Lindenmeyer reaches for the Sheila 3.2 character

module, Sid 6.7 appears on the screen in front of him and

winks.

Peeling the label off the Sid 6.7 character module,

Lindenmeyer removes the module from its slot. Sid 6.7

disappears from the screen.

REILLY

opening his office door for Lindenmeyer fifteen minutes

later. Reilly immediately double bolts the door behind him

and leads Lindenmeyer through piles of electronic circuitry.

As well as a large aquarium full of nanopythons.

He removes a tarp from a large, rectangular, metallic tank

with a circular window in the middle of it.

Clear, plastic tubing, which branches into hundreds of

increasingly smaller and smaller branches, floats in

electrified fluid. The tubing is a synthetic human nervous

system.

INSIDE REILLY'S OFFICE

Reilly turns to Lindenmeyer.

Lindenmeyer hands him the labelless character module. Reilly

opens the "incubator."

INSIDE THE INCUBATOR

Reilly inserts the module into the gelatinous base of the

synthetic nervous system.

The polymer neural net instantly crackles with life. It grows

around the module. Cells (nanomechanisms) immediately begin

adhering to the tubing. Forming the beginnings of a skeletal

architecture.

INSIDE REILLY'S OFFICE

Lindenmeyer and Reilly look on through the circular window.

Off Lindenmeyer's wicked, but somewhat anxious, smile, we

INSIDE PARKER'S CRAMPED PRISON CELL

It's night. Light is dim. His bed is empty. The wall next to

it is completely bare, except for the five Christmas cards

sent each year by Chief Cox.

The other two walls in the cell, however, look very

different. They are completely covered with primitive

paintings  darkly colored, surreal images. Imagine the

Lascaux cave paintings as worksinprogress. Painted by Dali.

Except these images were created by Parker Barnes.

He kneels in a corner, working intensely on another image.

Completely lost in concentration. His hands, his clothing,

covered in paint. He almost appears to be part of the art

work.

The work is intricate. It clearly takes Parker a very long

time. Which gives him something to do during the nights he is

unable to sleep. Which is most of them.

He is so absorbed in his task that he seems oblivious to the

constant taunts ECHOING throughout the cell block. Threats of

the ugliest, most vile kind. The kind Parker has had to live

with every night for the last five years.

Pausing to admire his work, Parker finally hears the taunts.

His face becoming a mixture of frustration, guilt, and anger.

Parker immediately resumes painting.

INSIDE REILLY'S OFFICE

Reilly paces anxiously by the incubator eight hours later.

Lindenmeyer sits off to the side, looking no less anxious.

It's close to 4:00 AM.

THROUGH THE CIRCULAR WINDOW

There is no liquid left in the incubator -- it's all been

absorbed. All that is visible is the silhouette of a human

form crouched within steam. The form stands.

INSIDE REILLY'S OFFICE

The human form inside incubator opens the hatch. Steam pours

out from within its confines as it climbs out slowly.

The figure stands within the mist, admiring itself. Then its

surroundings.

Reilly approaches the figure with the expectancy of a father

about to see his newborn child for the first time.

Lindenmeyer hangs back.

His face drops when Sid 6.7 steps out of the mist.

Completely naked. Lindenmeyer smiles proudly. Fearfully.

Wickedly.

He extends his hand as if to shake. Then grabs Reilly by the

throat and chokes him. Hard.

He watches Reilly's face with curiosity as the life drains

from it. A puddle forms beneath him. He drops Reilly's body

to the floor.

Lindenmeyer is nowhere to be seen. The office door is

unlocked, and open. Watching Sid 6.7's expression, you

realize something isn't quite right.

His expression is exaggerated. Artificial. Only for a moment,

but it's enough to remind you Sid 6.7 is not human.

The billions of nanomechanisms which make up his anatomy are

still learning to function in a fully-coordinated fashion.

Sid 6.7 is, literally, getting used to his new skin.

In various ways throughout his "life"  be it a wandering

eye, or a momentary limp - you will be reminded that Sid 6.7

is a synthetic nanoorganism unlike anyone has ever seen.

A surgical knife by the aquarium catches Sid 6.7's attention.

Picking up the knife, he runs his finger across the razor

sharp knife blade. Cutting himself slightly. A drop of blood

appears. Sid 6.7 tastes his (synthetic) blood.

He then watches with interest as his wound regenerates,

healing itself. The scar tissue is slightly off color.

Glancing at Reilly's prone body, he then SLAMS the office

door in our face.

INSIDE A PRISON INTERROGATION ROOM

6:00 AM. Parker, clearly just awakened, is led into the room

by a guard, who then exits. Waiting for Parker are Chief of

Police Cox and Elizabeth Deane.

Parker, looking at her incredulously, moves his index finger

circularly, as in get on with it, already. Cox opens a folder

and shows Parker several PHOTOGRAPHS of Reilly, or what was

left of him.

He hands a photograph of Sid 6.7 exiting LETAC to Parker.

She slides an unsigned pardon across the table to Parker,

making sure to stay beyond his arm's reach. Cox reveals a

worn, L. A. P. D. badge. It was Parker's.

Deane holds up a small device called a LOCATER IMPLANT. It is

the size of a dime.

PARKER

being given a crew cut by an INMATE BARBER inside the Prison

Barber Shop. Long lengths of Parker's hair cover the floor.

Parker's face is then shaved. The majority of his face is

hidden. Cox and Deane look on.

Parker's expression is one of  yeah, that figures. Madison

enters. She cannot see Parker behind the barber.

The barber moves back from Parker, revealing his clean

shaven face. It takes Madison a moment to recognize him with

his cleanedup appearance.

INSIDE A PRISON HOSPITAL OPERATING ROOM

Parker lies on an operating table, receiving anesthesia, as a

SURGEON drills a small hole into his skull. The surgeon

inserts a minute, fiber-optic camera into the hole.

Parker's brain is displayed on a monitor. The surgeon uses

the image to guide him as he carefully inserts the locater

implant into Parker's brain.

Parker's rapid eye movements tell you the anesthetist is

correct. Parker is dreaming.

INSIDE A VIEWING ROOM

Cox and Deane watch the operation through a large window.

Madison enters, carrying a folder labelled:	INMATE #673429

A/K/A PARKER BARNES. She withdraws several PHOTOGRAPHS from

the folder, placing the first one in front of Deane.

The photograph is in black and white. But as we MOVE IN

CLOSER, it takes on color. As well as comes to life. Then

distorting. Becoming surreal. Resembling one of the images

from Parker's cell. Then mutating into something else.

PARKER'S EYES

darting about wildly beneath his eyelids as he continues

dreaming. You now realize you are seeing what he is seeing:

Flashes of color. Shapes. Mostly blurs. A splash of gold.

Along with some yellow. More images from Parker's cell. Both

taking feminine form. One adult, one child.

The bright colors melt into darker, more brooding images.

Flashes of men's faces. Melting into urban decay.

Unhappiness. Technology.

Melancholy turns violent. Glimpses of weapons. Death.

Explosions. Death. Blood. Death. Caskets. Tombstones. Images

moving so fast, it's hard to tell what they are. Nothing

literal.

Weapons firing. Bombs exploding. Images of rage in all its

forms. Many of which you've already seen. Making one thing

now clear: the paintings in Parker's cell represent his life.

What he was. What he lost. And what he is.

Tears. Hopelessness. Detonation. And finally blackness.

Complete and utter blackness.

ELIZABETH DEANE

looking at the fifth photograph which Madison has placed in

front of her inside the Viewing Room.

INSIDE THE OPERATING ROOM

As Parker continues dreaming, the locater implant in his head

is tested. Parker's location is pinpointed on an electronic

map to within one inch of his present location. The hole in

his skull is then stitched shut.

PARKER

putting on his L. A. P. D. uniform and badge inside a Prison

Interrogation Room. He looks very much like he did in virtual

reality, except for the scar on his cheek, and his empty

holster. Cox and Madison look on.

Cox hands Madison a thick folder.

His cellular phone RINGS, which he answers. As he listens to

the call, his expression is one of growing concern. He clicks

off the phone.

Cox glances to Madison, then hands Parker a .45.

AN L. A. P. D. SQUAD CAR

passing through the Security Checkpoints outside the Prison.

Parker at the wheel. Madison beside him. It's afternoon.

INSIDE THE SQUAD CAR

Parker presents his identification to a GUARD, then drives

through the final checkpoint. Madison reviews Lindenmeyer's

file.

He glances at her, then stops the car.

OUTSIDE THE PRISON GATES

Parker gets out of the car. Madison follows suit.

He walks around the car, brushing past her. Then drops to his

knees at the side of the road. He puts his hands in the dirt,

feeling the earth between his fingers.

Taking a deep breath, he wipes the dirt off his hands. Then

stands.

He gets back in the vehicle. Off Madison's reaction, we

SEVERAL TV REPORTERS

talking live to their cameras on the street in front of a

beautiful, suburban home in Toluca Lake, which is now a crime

scene. 6 PM.

Parker and Madison make their way through the curious trying

to see what's going on. Several REPORTERS double-take Parker,

then quickly instruct their PHOTOGRAPHERS to take shots of

him.

Parker and Madison present their identification to the COPS

keeping the curious at bay.

Parker and Madison continue toward the house. Getting an

increasing amount of attention, particularly from the other

COPS. Some look on with awe. Some with disdain. But nobody is

in between.

He gives her a brief smile. Which Madison does not return.

One of the other policemen tentatively approaches Parker.

He extends his hand to Parker, who shakes it.

He turns to Parker, who is looking right at him. Not with

anger. Not with any emotion, really. But it's enough to scare

the shit out of Cop #3, who walks away.

INSIDE THE SUBURBAN HOME

Investigators analyze the crime scene extensively with every

device imaginable. Parker and Madison survey the scene with

nothing but their eyes.

Lying in the middle of the living room are the four victims:

the affluent couple and the first two cops to arrive. Their

bodies were left in similar condition to Reilly's. Except

their heads have been interchanged.

Parker and Madison turn their attention to a message written

in blood on a wall. It reads: DEATH TO THE PIGS.

OUTSIDE LINDENMEYER'S DUPLEX

in Culver City. Magic hour. Parker pulls the squad car into a

space across the street. Hitting the vehicle parked in front

of them. In which two UNDERCOVER COPS sit waiting to see if

Lindenmeyer returns. Parker waves apologetically.

He ignores her as they get out of the car.

She approaches the cops, who remain in their car.

WHAM! They all turn their heads to see Parker has kicked in

Lindenmeyer's front door and is going inside.

INSIDE LINDENMEYER'S DUPLEX

Madison races through the broken front door to find Parker

checking his weapon. Before she can speak, he motions for

Madison to freeze and be silent.

Parker hears Something. Something moving inside the duplex.

His every movement is now that of a predator.

Madison awkwardly removes her own weapon from her purse. She

does not handle it with confidence. Parker shakes his head.

Parker bolts through the duplex, storming into rooms

furiously. His movements are aggressive. Madison searches

other rooms methodically. She is not timid. Just

inexperienced in the field.

She passes a video camera mounted on a tripod. Pointed out

the window at a neighbor's bathroom. Dozens of cassettes

surround the tripod. The labels are dated  covering every

day of the last month.

Parker and Madison enter opposite sides of the kitchen with

their guns drawn, nearly shooting each other. Madison puts

down her gun. Parker does not. The noise persists.

He smiles wickedly, and continues on. Madison takes a deep

breath, then resumes her search. Parker and Madison end up

INSIDE LINDENMEYER'S HOME OFFICE

It's as if the Information Superhighway ended in here.

Cluttered stockpiles of hardware and software: computers,

books, folders, disks, and tapes.

What you notice, however, is that ALL THE DATA relates to

DIFFERENT KINDS of CRIMINALS: serial killers, mass murderers,

terrorists, kidnappers, rapists, bombers, extortionists,

anarchists, you name it, it's here. The psychology of, the

methodology of, the history of, the encyclopedia of, the

autobiographies of human villainy.

CLASSICAL MUSIC and lifelike SOUND EFFECTS can be heard

coming from a computer. This is what Parker has been hearing.

He holsters his sidearm. So does Madison. Who checks her

pulse.

ON THE COMPUTER MONITOR

An animated man, who resembles Lindenmeyer, walks peacefully

through a park. He then starts killing everything in sight.

Men, women, squirrels, even flowers. All to classical music.

The scene immediately starts over, with the man once again

walking peacefully through the park. This was Lindenmeyer's

SCREEN SAVER.

INSIDE LINDENMEYER'S OFFICE

Looking around the room, Madison shakes her head.

He runs his finger along a book shelf, pausing at two books

in particular. Their titles are: UNDERSTANDING THE CRIMINAL

MIND, and CRIMINAL PURSUIT -- A PSYCHOLOGICAL GUIDE FOR LAW

ENFORCEMENT. They were written by Dr. Madison Carter.

Noticing something on the floor, she picks up a bizarre

looking synthesizer keyboard off the floor. You read its

name: MAESTRO.

Madison elects not to respond. She sits down at the computer,

which rests between busts of Beethoven and Mozart, and begins

typing at the computer. She works with efficiency. Knowing

exactly what she's doing. She is now in her element.

From a shelf, Parker picks up a moldy piece of licorice

inserted into a half-eaten pudding cup. Then flips through

one of the books written by Madison. Only half-interested.

ON THE COMPUTER SCREEN

The graphics show you that Sid 1.2 was a combination of

Charles Manson and Billy the Kid. You see what look like two

viruses, which represent each criminal's psychological

profile, attacking each other. The result is a molten blob.

Berkowitz was added to create Sid 1.3. A three-way

psychological battle, more hostile than the first, occurs.

Sid 1.4, adding the terrorist, Abu Nidal, makes the conflict

even more violent. And so on.

INSIDE LINDENMEYER'S OFFICE

Madison stares at the computer screen in awe. Parker flips

through CD-ROM hard copies of the different versions of Sid.

She continues opening the files of the higher versions of

Sid. Version 5.9 consists of 67 different profiles. The

visualized psychological battle is intense. And extremely

violent. The 6.7 version, with 183 profiles, is even worse.

Attempting to open the files of the composite profiles,

Madison discovers they are protected by encryption.

Madison scrolls through the list of 183 names, stopping at

the name MATHEW GRIMES. Alarm registers on her face. As

Parker comes over to look over her shoulder, she quickly

scrolls through the list to get the name off the screen. He

holds the Sid 6.7 CD-ROM in hand.

Parker points to a name on the screen:	JEFFREY DAHMER.

THE SID 6.7 CD-ROM

being inserted into a disc drive inside the Cal Tech Computer

Lab. Very high-tech. Sitting at the computer is ALEXIEV

BORGEN, 60s, the "grand old wizard" of the facility. Parker

and Madison sit next to him. Around them, young Lindenmeyers

are everywhere.

A YOUNG COUPLE

kissing passionately inside a car parked along a deserted

street in Hollywood. Music blares from inside the vehicle.

Steam on the windows partially obscures your view. As well as

Sid 6.7's.

He stares menacingly through the side window. Enjoying the

show. His eye momentarily wanders.

The young lovers are completely oblivious. Sid 6.7 caresses

the gun taken from the cops in Toluca Lake as if it

stimulated him.

He raises the gun, placing it against the steamed window. But

does NOT pull the trigger. His face going through a rapid

change of expression  as if a battle for control of his

emotions were going on.

Regaining control, Sid 6.7 lowers the gun. He stands back.

Reflecting.

He pockets his weapon and walks

INSIDE AN UPSCALE NIGHTCLUB

The bartender is a low-tech ROBO-TENDER. PATRONS sit quietly,

drinking themselves into oblivion. Sid 6.7 takes a seat next

to an BUSINESSMAN slumped at the bar.

The Robo-Tender rolls over to Sid 6.7.

He shoots the RoboTender between his mechanical eyes. The

businessman smiles, like he's thought about doing exactly the

same thing.

Sid 6.7 thinks about it. Long and hard.

He points to a table with several other BUSINESSMEN.

He lifts the businessman off his bar stool and carries him to

the table.

AN ELECTRONIC MAP OF LOS ANGELES

on which a RED DOT moves west along a street in Los Feliz.

The map occupies a wall inside Chief Cox's Office in the

L.A.P. D. Downtown Headquarters. Cox, Wallace and Deane look

on.

Off Cox's look, we

INSIDE PARKER'S SQUAD CAR

Parker drives through a residential neighborhood. 9 PM.

Madison points to a house on the right.

Parker stops in front of a modest, but wellkept, house.

Madison pockets the car keys, then reveals a pair of

handcuffs. She latches one cuff to the steering wheel, and

holds up the other toward Parker.

Parker relents, and holds up his wrist. Madison places the

cuff around it, then gets out of the car.

OUTSIDE MADISON'S HOUSE

Madison walks up the steps to the front porch. She is

immediately intercepted by her daughter, KARIN, 7, who bursts

out of the front door and leaps into her arms.

Karin's BABY-SITTER opens the door for Madison as she carries

her daughter inside.

Parker stares from squad car in surprise. Even disbelief. He

had no idea Madison was a mother.

Moments later, Karin comes back out and sits on the front

steps. Staring at Parker. With fascination. Curiosity.

Wondering who this strange man is, and why he's sitting in a

police car outside her house. But not saying a word.

Parker stares back as if carrying on a silent conversation

with her. A multitude of expressions passing over his face as

memories of his own daughter flash through his mind.

INSIDE MADISON'S BEDROOM

Madison sits at a desk, typing quickly at a computer. Via

modem, she connects with the L. A. P. D. Criminal Library.

She rifles through data concerning MATHEW GRIMES, who was the

leader of a cult of cyber anarchists. He was known as the

Charles Manson of technological terrorism.

ON HER COMPUTER SCREEN

From both newspaper ARTICLES and news FOOTAGE, the following

information about him becomes clear:

Grimes was an expert at media manipulation. He delighted in

publicly humiliating anyone who stood in his way. The Mayor

of Los Angeles, Bob Bennett, who offered increasingly higher

rewards for Grimes' capture, was Grimes' primary nemesis.

L.A.P.D. Special Investigations Division Officer Parker

Barnes managed to stop Grimes from killing Mayor Bennett.

Grimes retaliated by repeatedly humiliating Parker with false

leads and lawsuits.

You see footage of a woman lying dead in an alley. A note is

pinned to her clothing. The note reads: "HEY, PARKER, THIS

ONE'S FOR YOU."

Grimes then kidnapped Parker's wife and daughter. Parker

located the group in a club, but only in time to witness

their deaths. Parker then killed everybody in the club,

including the six cult members and two completely innocent

people.

INSIDE HER BEDROOM

Madison stares gravely into the screen.

OUTSIDE MADISON'S HOUSE

Parker and Karin continue staring at each other in silence.

He smiles. Then she smiles. She wiggles her nose. Then so

does he.

Madison comes out wearing fresh clothing, then kisses her

daughter good night. As Madison goes to the squad car, Karin

waves good-bye to Parker. He does the same. Karin's

babysitter then leads her back inside the house.

INSIDE PARKER'S SQUAD CAR

Madison gets in, immediately noticing the handcuffs dangling

from the steering wheel. Parker has been free the entire

time.

As she unlocks the handcuffs from the steering wheel, Parker

wiggles his mechanical hand in front of her face.

Annoyed, Madison tosses him the car keys. He starts the

engine and drives.

She turns on the police radio.

He turns up the police radio.

INSIDE THE UPSCALE NIGHTCLUB

Sid 6.7 has separated the patrons into four separate groups:

older men and woman, and younger men and woman. All are

frozen in their seats with fear.

Sid 6.7 points his gun at one group, then another, waving his

arm as if he were a conductor, and as if his gun were a

baton. Sid 6.7 clearly enjoys this game of terror. He

delights in the patrons' fear, and revels in his power over

them.

He fires his gun just above her head. She SCREAMS in terror.

He continues aiming his gun from face to face, seeking ever

increasing emotional responses from his "instruments." A guy

entering the bar does a quick about face. Gone by the time

Sid 6.7 glances at the door.

Once again, from the top BOOM! He shoots again, just

missing a man's foot.

MADISON

buying two coffees from a downtown street vendor. She returns

to the squad car, which is barely moving. Traffic is at a

near standstill because of an accident.

INSIDE THE SQUAD CAR

Parker drinks his coffee black. Madison adds two creams, two

sugars. The cackling from the police radio continues

unabated.

Madison stops herself from speaking. It isn't easy for her.

Parker cracks a faint smile. YOU HEAR the police radio.

Tossing his coffee out the window, he opens the door.

He gets out, running down the sidewalk. He flies past the

cars inching down the block.

She climbs into the driver's seat, spilling hot coffee on

herself.

ON SIXTH STREET

Parker bolts recklessly through the downtown street. A hunter

hot on the trail of his prey in an urban jungle.

INSIDE THE UPSCALE NIGHTCLUB

Sid 6.7 gently caresses the hair of a terrified young WOMAN

sitting among several others. You hear the sound of tires

SCREECHING to a halt outside.

Sid 6.7 remains unconcerned. He toys with the Woman, pointing

the gun in her face, then pulling it back. Her expression

changes instantly. Dramatically.

TWO COPS stand in the doorway, weapons aimed at Sid 6.7. The

Cops inch closer to him.

Sid 6.7 spins around and fires twice before he can finish his

sentence. Both Cops receive IDENTICAL wounds in their

shooting arms, reminding you of the wounds Parker and John

first received in the opening virtual reality sequence.

Sid 6.7 takes a bow, as if on stage.

As he walks toward the exit, he admires himself in the mirror

behind the bar. Sid 6.7 has never seen his own image in the

real world before. He likes what he sees.

OUTSIDE THE UPSCALE NIGHTCLUB

Street traffic is much lighter here. Sid 6.7 exits, getting

into the vacant police car left by the cops.

INSIDE THE COPS' VEHICLE

Sid 6.7 adjusts his seat. The rearview mirror. Glancing at

himself. Then behind him.

HIS POV -- IN THE REARVIEW MIRROR

Parker becomes visible racing around the corner. Running like

a dog who's got the scent.

INSIDE THE COPS' VEHICLE

Sid 6.7 looks pleased.

CRACK! A bullet spiderwebs the rear window. Sid 6.7 punches

the gas, taking off in a hurry.

OUTSIDE THE UPSCALE NIGHTCLUB

Parker races after Sid 6.7, firing his weapon continuously.

WITHOUT CARE for the innocent MOTORISTS nearby. They SCREAM

in absolute terror, but remain unharmed. Physically, anyway.

Parker gives up the chase of Sid 6.7's vehicle and runs in

the other direction. Toward Madison as she rounds the corner

in their squad car.

INSIDE PARKER'S VEHICLE

He opens the driver's side door and shoves Madison over.

He jumps behind the wheel, flooring the accelerator. Speeding

through the already frightened motorists. Madison is pinned

to the back of her seat. Looking out the window, she looks at

the motorists.

ON THE STREET

Parker's vehicle speeds through city streets. Gaining ground

on Sid 6.7.

Parker stops for nothing. Not for red lights. Not for

gridlock. When the street becomes impassable, he veers onto

the sidewalk.

INSIDE PARKER'S VEHICLE

Parker's eyes are locked to the road with fierce

determination. Madison's eyes are a mixture of fear and

excitement. She holds onto the door handle for dear life.

Parker turns to her, then picks up the radio.

Parker accelerates even faster. Closing the gap between them

and Sid 6.7.

INSIDE SID 6.7'S VEHICLE

Sid 6.7 drives dangerously fast, causing an accident, around

which Parker must circumnavigate. Tires SCREECH. Glass

SHATTERS. Sid 6.7 hangs his head out the window.

Madison's anxiety tanks are hitting capacity.

Parker glances at his mechanical hands gripping the wheel.

Madison can't believe he is able to carry on a conversation

while driving like this.

Madison clicks off the radio.

She puts her hand to her wrist -- checking her pulse.

Madison takes out her weapon. Her hands are shaking.

ON THE STREET

Sid 6.7's vehicle reaches absolute gridlock. Nobody's going

anywhere for a while.

Sid 6.7 SLAMS on the brakes and abandons the car, leaving it

right in the middle of the street. A TRAFFIC COP with his

weapon trained on Sid 6.7 from a distance.

Sid 6.7 slowly reaches inside his jacket and fires his weapon

through it. He only gets a hole in his jacket. The Traffic

Cop gets a hole through his chest.

He aims his weapon at Parker's oncoming vehicle.

INSIDE PARKER'S VEHICLE

Madison leans out the window, aiming her gun at Sid 6.7, as

Parker speeds toward the gridlock.

Madison's determination battles her inexperience. Sid 6.7

gets off the first shot. CRACK! That was the windshield by

Parker's head. He ducks down, driving blind.

Madison fires. Nowhere close. She adjusts her sights and

fires again. The result is the same.

BOOM! That was Sid 6.7 shooting their front left tire. Parker

loses control of the vehicle.

ON THE STREET

Parker's vehicle SLAMS into a car stopped in front of them.

Air bags save Parker and Madison from injury, but also

prevent them from getting out of the car with any speed.

By the time they do get out, Sid 6.7 is long gone. Parker

stares at Madison with pure hatred.

INSIDE A CONFERENCE ROOM

in the L. A. P. D. Downtown Headquarters the next morning.

Chief Cox stares angrily at Parker. Madison sits next to him.

Behind them is a mirrored wall.

INSIDE THE ADJACENT ROOM

Wallace and Deane look on through the twoway mirror. Deane

is on the phone.

ON A TELEVISION

The news is in progress. A REPORTER continues.

INSIDE A SUPERMARKET

The TV is one of many mounted above the checkout counters.

CUSTOMERS waiting in line with their shopping carts watch the

news with varying degrees of horror, disgust, curiosity, and

fear.

The stronger their reaction, the more Sid 6.7 enjoys it. He

is waiting in line holding a box of Twinkies.

Off the cashier's look, we

DARYL LINDENMEYER

watching the news on a pocket TV on a wooden bench that

morning. Both proud and horrified at the monster he has

unleashed upon the world. You hear CLASSICAL MUSIC in the

background.

Lindenmeyer begins to laugh. Uncontrollably. The sounds

echoing. As WE PULL BACK, you realize the bench is one of

many inside the Hollywood Bowl.

Lindenmeyer is the only person sitting in the stands. He

glances down at the members of the Los Angeles Philharmonic

as they rehearse for an upcoming performance.

Whatever the event is, it's going to be big. Dozens of

technicians surround the stage, setting lights, cameras,

microphones, etc. for a live, payperview broadcast.

ALEXIEV BORGEN

talking on a phone inside the Cal Tech Computer Lab.

PARKER AND MADISON

on the speakerphone inside Cox's Office.

Parker and Madison turn to each other - shit.

SID 6.7

walking along a sidewalk. Noon. Something in a store front

catches his attention. Namely, his own image being captured

by a video camera pointed at the sidewalk. He is standing

outside a large electronics store.

Sid 6.7 walks closer to the window, moving into a CLOSEUP.

He is captivated by his image. Fascinated. And intrigued.

This is the first time he has ever seen himself on screen.

INSIDE THE ELECTRONICS STORE

Dozens of TVs on display. There is a different channel on

each. The audio/visual bombardment is overwhelming. Sid 6.7

enters, making his way to a big screen TV with the local news

in progress.

Sid 6.7 changes the channel to a different news broadcast.

Parker's Folsom County Prison I. D. photograph is shown

alongside a photograph of Madison from one of her book

covers.

The news broadcast zooms in on Parker's picture. Sid 6.7

wiggles his synthetic fingers in front of his face.

He changes the channel back to the first news broadcast. A

reporter stands amid the chaos outside the bar where Sid 6.7

had terrified the patrons.

Sid 6.7 turns to the other CUSTOMERS in the store. Most of

them are watching other channels. He goes over to a control

pad on a counter and presses several buttons.

Now EVERY TV in the store has the news with the reporter

outside the bar on. A SKINHEAD, sporting numerous Nazi

swastika tattoos, manually changes the channel on one of the

TVs to a Dodger baseball game.

Sid 6.7 walks over to the Skinhead and changes the channel

back to the news.

He moves to the next TV over and changes the channel to the

baseball game. Sid 6.7 moves over with him, standing directly

behind the Skinhead as if also interested in the Dodgers.

He places his hands on the Skinhead's head and efficiently

snaps his head around, breaking his neck.

He drops the Skinhead to the floor, never once taking his

eyes off the TV.

ON THE TV

A Dodger game is in progress. A pop fly is caught by the

center fielder. The runner at third tags and heads for home.

The play at the plate is close. The umpire calls the runner

out.

The camera pans to the MASSIVE SCREEN over left field to show

the instant replay. Reactions of fans around the stadium are

shown in CLOSEUP. The fans also respond to seeing themselves

on the massive screen.

INSIDE THE ELECTRONICS STORE

Sid 6.7 watches the TV intently, completely ignoring the

horrified customers circling around him because of the dead

Skinhead at his feet. A SALESMAN, who'd been demonstrating a

videocamera, tapes Sid 6.7 from behind a customer.

SALESMAN'S POV -- HANDHELD VIDEO

As Sid 6.7 realizes he's being videotaped, his entire face

seems to light up. Playing directly to the camera, he clearly

loves being in the spotlight. The attention. The focus. It's

suddenly as if he's had years of training. He is completely

at ease. And simply captivating.

He walks into an EXTREME CLOSE-UP and kisses the lense. Then

reaches out of frame to help the increasinglyshaky salesman

steady the camera.

WE PULL BACK TO REVEAL you're now watching a recording of Sid

6.7 on videotape, along with Parker, Madison, and a dozen

other COPS, inside the Electronics Store an hour later. The

tape is rewound.

She moves closer to the screen as the tape is played back.

Madison studies Sid 6.7 intently.

Her request is obliged.

She stares at Sid 6.7, who is looking directly at her.

Her attention turns to the upper right corner of the screen,

where onlookers are visible watching Sid 6.7. Their faces

blurry. But even out of focus, it isn't hard to recognize

Lindenmeyer.

She points to Lindenmeyer, then makes her way over to Parker,

who's standing exactly where Sid 6.7 was when he killed the

Skinhead. Parker does not look at Madison. His eyes are fixed

on the TV in front of him.

ON THE TV

The baseball game continues. Players take the field at the

start of a new inning. The outfielders can't help but glance

at the beautiful WOMAN being shown in CLOSE-UP on the massive

screen over left field.

INSIDE THE ELECTRONICS STORE

He grabs a police radio from a nearby OFFICER.

INSIDE DODGER STADIUM

On the massive screen over left field, the Woman in CLOSE-UP

looks embarrassed, trying to forget her face is now 40 feet

high for all the other fans to see.

The players on the field are all looking up at the massive

screen.

INSIDE THE STADIUM CONTROL BOOTH

The Woman's face appears on various monitors. The phone

RINGS. No one answers it. The room appears to be empty.

The stadium's closed-circuit TV director is not in his chair.

He's lying dead on the floor.

ON THE J SECTION CAMERA PLATFORM

The closedcircuit camera remains focused on the Woman. The

camera is locked off. It's operator lies dead beside it.

THROUGH ITS VIEWFINDER

Sid 6.7 can be seen arriving next to the Woman. He gently

caresses her hair.

IN J SECTION

Sid 6.7 stands in front of the Woman's BOYFRIEND, who sits

next to her.

Sid 6.7 picks him up out of his seat and throws him three

rows ahead. Sid 6.7 then puts hands around the Woman's

throat.

ON THE MASSIVE SCREEN

over left field, the Woman attempts to scream as Sid 6.7

chokes her. No sound comes out.

FANS

react with horror. But nobody turns away.

SECURITY PERSONNEL

rush from all parts of the stadium toward J Section.

SID 6.7

enjoys the reactions of the terrified fans around him as he

chokes the life out of the Woman.

His words ECHO around the stadium as he SNAPS the Woman's

neck. He then hurls her limp body toward several men as they

charge him.

He leaps over a railing, rushing into a tunnel which leads

out of the seating area.

A SECURITY GUARD

climbs up the stairs to the mouth of the tunnel. Weapon in

hand. He draws a bead on Sid 6.7's back. BOOM!

HIS POV

A bullet rips through Sid 6.7's side. Blood begins to seep

from the wound. But then immediately begins to retract. Once

his blood has returned, his skin heals over the wound.

Leaving a scar. Which also then disappears.

Other than the hole in his shirt, Sid 6.7 is as good as new.

He never even misses a step as he disappears around the

corner.

THE SECURITY GUARD

stares in disbelief as he is joined by several comrades.

PANIC-STRICKEN FANS

in J Section start moving away from the area as fast as they

can. Parents clutching their children. Climbing over seats.

Shoving anyone in their way.

Fans all over the stadium start charging toward the exits.

OUTSIDE DODGER STADIUM

People bolt through the turnstiles, running away from the

stadium as L. A. P. D. squad cars approach in the distance.

The car in the lead is Parker's.

INSIDE PARKER'S VEHICLE

Parker speeds dangerously fast toward the fans streaming onto

the street. Madison braces herself.

Parker JAMS on the brakes with both feet. SCREEEEEEECH!

OUTSIDE DODGER STADIUM

Parker comes within inches of mowing down several people, who

keep right on running. Parker jumps out of the vehicle,

scanning faces. In predator mode. Madison gets out, clearly

shaken. Parker locks his gaze on somebody in the distance.

HIS POV

A guy in Dodger baseball cap and jacket. Walking calmly away

from the stadium. He descends down an escalator into a

recently-built subway station. It is Sid 6.7.

PARKER

charges after him. A heatseeking missile locked on target.

She does the best she can to follow after him. People knock

into Parker as hard as he does them. A human version of

bumper cars.

Reaching the entrance to the subway, Parker leaps down the

escalator three steps at a time. Madison remains in his wake.

INSIDE THE SUBWAY STATION

Parker and Madison hop the turnstiles. Only to be stopped by

a remotecontrolled, boxshaped robotic sentry, which is

identical to one you have seen before. This sentry was one of

Reilly's creations at LETAC.

Parker spits in the Robot's electronic eye. Temporarily

blinding it, as well as the guy operating it via remote

control. Parker and Madison make their getaway as the robotic

sentry struggles to clean off his eye.

They come to a fork: one tunnel goes to east/west trains, the

other to north/south.

He races down the tunnel to the north/south trains. Madison

heads down the other. Her determination beginning to win out

over her inexperience.

PARKER

hesitates at the escalator leading to the south-bound side of

the tracks.

Further down the tunnel is the escalator to the northbound

trains. Parker chooses the escalator closest to him.

ON THE SOUTH-BOUND PLATFORM

Passengers pass the time by watching a television mounted

above them. Except for Parker, who scans the crowd. Then

across the tracks.

ON THE NORTH-BOUND PLATFORM

In the entire crowd, there is only one person not watching

the TV screen. He is watching Parker. Through his gun sight.

Sid 6.7 pulls the trigger. BOOM!

ON THE SOUTH-BOUND PLATFORM

Parker dives to the ground, just avoiding the bullet. He

scrambles behind a pillar for protection. Only to see the guy

standing behind him wasn't as lucky.

ON THE EAST-BOUND PLATFORM

Madison hears the gunshot ECHO through the station. Which

scares the already-terrified fans trying to get away from

Dodger Stadium. Chaos is rapidly becoming Pandemonium.

She races up the escalator, taking out her weapon.

PARKER

peeking out from behind the pillar on the south-bound

platform.

PARKER'S POV -- ACROSS THE TRACKS

Passengers rush in every direction. Some are screaming. Some

are crying. Nobody knows who fired the shot. Or where to go.

But everyone is going somewhere.

Including Sid 6.7, who makes his way through the flurry of

movement toward the up escalator. It is difficult to keep

sight of him.

PARKER

moves toward the edge of the platform, aiming his gun across

the tracks. Those around him quickly back away.

Only about half the passengers on the northbound side can

hear him above the screaming already going on. Sid 6.7 is

nowhere to be seen.

The rest of the passengers hit the deck, except for a COLLEGE

STUDENT listening to music on headphones. He is riding the

escalator up. Sid 6.7 stands behind him, using the student as

a shield.

PARKER' S POV

As Sid 6.7 ascends, slight portions of his body are

momentarily exposed behind the student as he sways with the

music coming from his headphones. Parker does NOT have a

clean shot.

In 10 seconds, Sid 6.7 will disappear from view completely

and Parker will have no shot at all. A momentary sliver of

Sid 6.7 becomes visible. An inch-and-a-half at most.

PARKER

doesn't hesitate. He lines up his shot and pulls the trigger.

ON THE NORTH-BOUND UP ESCALATOR

The college student standing in front of Sid 6.7 gets winged

in the shoulder. Not a serious wound, but a painful one just

the same.

The bullet must have hit bone, because it deflected upon

impact, missing Sid 6.7 entirely.

The student drops to the escalator, screaming in pain. Sid

6.7 crouches beside him.

PARKER'S POV

The top of Sid 6.7's head is exposed an inch, maybe two.

PARKER

fires again. Repeatedly. Moving closer and closer to the edge

of the platform, trying to get a better angle while he still

has a shot.

Parker moves to the very edge of the platform. His arm

extended out over it. Completely oblivious to

THE SUBWAY TRAIN

rocketing into the station toward the south-bound platform.

MADISON

leaps off the descending escalator on the southbound side

and rushes to Parker.

She pulls Parker back just before the train reaches him. Had

his arm still been raised, Parker would have lost his arm a

second time.

They tumble to the floor. A PASSENGER rushes to Madison.

Parker gets to his feet. Madison doesn't take her eyes off

him.

He heads toward the up escalator. His back now to Madison.

She aims her gun at him.

He keeps right on going up the escalator.

MADISON

lines up her shot. Hands shaking. With both fear and

determination. Her finger presses down on the trigger...but

she can't do it.

She chases after him.

INSIDE THE NORTH/SOUTH TUNNEL

Madison looks in both directions as she gets off the

escalator. Parker is nowhere to be seen.

Moving toward her slowly is the wounded college student, who

clutches his bleeding shoulder. He is shivering. Going into

shock. Madison goes to him, taking off his headphones.

He collapses in her arms.

Clearly versed in emergency medical treatment, Madison

attends to his wound. Parker returns.

OUTSIDE OF THE SUBWAY STATION

30 minutes later. The chaos outside Dodger Stadium has

subsided. Madison and two PARAMEDICS lead the bandaged

College Student to an ambulance.

Madison goes to Parker, who sits quietly by himself. Elbows

on his knees. Head between his hands. Staring at the cement

between his feet.

Parker doesn't respond. All around them, a cacophony of news

broadcasts is heard. From passing cars. From boom boxes. From

portable TVs. Over and over, you hear what Sid 6.7 had said

while killing the woman in Dodger Stadium:

As Parker raises his head slowly, you realize you are looking

at the face of a wild animal. Eyes rabid. Jaw clenched. Pure

anger. Violence about to erupt. Without fear. Without guilt.

The beast within has been unleashed.

Madison backs away in fear. Parker rises gradually.

Parker advances toward Madison, who continues backing away.

She tries to grab him by the shoulders. Parker blocks her

arms away.

She tries to back away, but backs herself against a light

pole. Madison has nowhere to go. Parker grabs her by the

collar, and shoves her against the pole. Hard.

A prison transport and another police vehicle pull up to them

fast. Two of the Prison Guards met earlier jump out of the

transport, advancing on Parker. Their weapons aimed at his

head.

Parker slowly raises his hands in the air. A Guard relieves

him of his weapon.

Deane and Cox step out of the police vehicle.

She exits. Cox and Parker stand facing each other. Cox wishes

there was something he could do. Parker looks completely out

of it. Cox extends his hand. After a moment, Parker takes it.

But his mind is way off elsewhere.

Madison looks on as Parker is herded roughly into the back of

the prison transport.

Parker shuts her up with a look. There is nothing that can be

said. The prison transport doors are SLAMMED shut. The

vehicle takes off.

INSIDE COX'S POLICE VEHICLE

Cox and Madison head back toward L. A. P. D. Headquarters.

They are in midconversation:

THE PRISON TRANSPORT

comes to a stop at a traffic light.

INSIDE THE PRISON TRANSPORT -- REAR

Parker sits alone in the darkness. Motionless. Until the

sound of TWO GUNSHOTS piercing the transport's front

windshield SHATTERS the silence.

He scrambles to the front of the compartment, pressing his

face against the steel mesh of the fourinch portal.

HIS POV -- LOOKING THROUGH PORTAL

Two bullet holes are visible in the windshield. The two

Prison Guards lie dead in their seats. Sid 6.7's eyes appear,

looking directly at you. He's smiling.

INSIDE THE PRISON TRANSPORT

Parker goes absolutely berserk. Viciously punching the steel

mesh which separates them until the synthetic skin on his

knuckles is shredded.

He savagely hurls himself against his confines. Bone vs.

metal. Don't try this at home.

Parker is completely spent. Mentally and physically. He

slumps in a corner. Out of breath. Bleeding. Sore. All he can

do is stare out through the portal's mesh at Sid 6.7.

He releases the rear door lock.

ON THE STREET

Parker bursts out of the back of the Prison Transport,

charging after Sid 6.7. Who is nowhere to be seen. Parker

runs in one direction. Then the other. And changes his mind

again. He literally does not know which way to turn.

INSIDE A CONFERENCE ROOM IN L. A. P. D. HEADQUARTERS

An AIDE rushes through the door to Cox, who's briefing Deane

and Wallace on what he has learned.

The Aide exits.

Wallace exits the room. Cox has no idea what is going on. And

Deane is not about to tell him.

INSIDE MADISON'S BEDROOM

Madison enters wearily, late afternoon. Exhausted from the

events of the last two days, she starts to undress. Her

clothing is filthy. So is her skin. She could use a good

shower, and a better massage.

Madison examines the various cuts and bruises she's received

along the way. Not exactly war wounds, but to somebody used

to sitting behind a desk, they are.

She absentmindedly turns on the television, then goes into

her bathroom. Madison looks at her face in the mirror. She's

looked better. After splashing cold water on her face, she

comes to the same conclusion.

Madison takes two aspirin. And then two more. Wishing they

would take effect immediately. Finally hearing the news on

the TV, her entire demeanor changes instantly.

Madison rushes in front of the television to see a report of

Parker's escape from the prison transport.

Grabbing a handful of clothes, she bolts urgently out the

door.

MADISON

speeding recklessly through city streets in her car. She

doesn't stop for red lights. Not for grid-lock. Not for

nothing.

She is also still finishing getting dressed.

OUTSIDE L. A. P. D. HEADQUARTERS

Ignoring the warnings of several COPS walking toward their

vehicles, Madison speeds toward the front entrance. She

barely stops in time. SCREEEECH!

INSIDE L. A. P. D. HEADQUARTERS

Madison races through the bustling facility. Looking for

somebody. She finally finds Cox coming out of his office.

Taking him by the arm, she leads him into an elevator going

down just before its doors close.

INSIDE THE ELEVATOR

The look on Cox's face tells you Madison has explained the

situation to him. He is furious.

He takes a security key out of his pocket and uses it to gain

access to a subterranean floor.

They exit quickly. Cox leads Madison

INSIDE A POWER SUPPLY ROOM

Cox leads in Madison and takes her to the subterranean power

supply. He points to the floor's numerous circuit breakers.

INSIDE THE LOCATER TRANSMISSION ROOM

The room is still under construction. Wallace stands behind a

TECHNICIAN sitting at a console in front of a massive

electronic map tracking several convicts, including Parker.

The technician is typing in an elaborate termination code.

Cox enters, concerning Wallace.

He surveys the electronic map, locating Parker. Just as the

lights go BLACK. Wallace and the technician immediately

panic.

Wallace and the technician rush out of the room, up the

emergency stairs. Cox sets to work ripping out the console's

circuitry. By the time he's finished, the equipment in here

won't be able to toast a piece of bread.

A TOMBSTONE

which reads: LINDA DAVIS BARNES (19611992) and CHRISTINE

MARY BARNES (1987-1992). Parker kneels in front of it. Magic

hour.

Madison, and Cox wind their way to him through obstacle

course of tombstones. Parker stands as they arrive. He is

wiped out. There is no emotion left in him.

He approaches, holding the Circuits he ripped out of the

Locator Transmission Room.

She means it. Parker turns away, looking at his wife's

headstone.

Parker turns toward him slowly. Emotion beginning to return

to his face.

OUTSIDE A CONSTRUCTION SIGHT

6 PM. The human FOREMAN presses a remote control detonator.

BOOM! An explosion occurs inside a building's foundation

(STOCK FOOTAGE). The building is levelled instantly.

Sid 6.7, who's been watching the explosion, approaches the

Foreman.

He shoots the Foreman in the chest. Sid 6.7 relieves him of

his keys and heads to an explosives storage shed.

SID 6.7

carrying a crate of C-4 high-explosives out of the shed in

the construction sight minutes later. He adds it to the dozen

crates already loaded in a truck. And takes off.

INSIDE A LARGE SEWER PIPE

Sid 6.7 secures several crates of C4 to an automated sewer

cleaning vehicle. He schedules its start time  24 hours

from now. It is now 7:45 PM. The bomb's TIMER is set to

detonate 15 minutes into the vehicle's journey -- at 8:00 PM

tomorrow night.

OUTSIDE THE BILTMORE HOTEL

sight of Mayor Bennett's upcoming Re-Election Rally, Cox

supervises an army of L. A. P. D. officers who are securing

the area. Bombsniffing dogs. Rooftop snipers. Helicopter

surveillance. Nothing is being left to chance.

Anyone doing anything within 100 yards of the building is

searched, including the REPORTERS and their CAMERA CREWS

covering the convention's security.

PARKER AND MADISON

survey the scene with binoculars from amid a crowd of

pedestrians two blocks away. Both are disguised in hats and

different clothing. You don't immediately recognize them.

Various faces in the crowd on the sidewalk. In the vehicles

passing on the street. On the bridge crossing the street down

the block further away from the hotel.

PARKER

puts down his binoculars. Madison does not.

She points to what she's looking at. Looking through his

binoculars, he still can't see what she means. She helps him

aim his binoculars.

PARKER'S POV -- THROUGH BINOCULARS

He scans the bridge. Finally settling on Sid 6.7, who is

talking on a payphone.

ON THE STREET

Parker looks up from his binoculars. Impressed.

They move briskly down the block toward the bridge. Quickly

climbing a set of stairs.

ON A ROOFTOP

Parker and Madison's movement catches the attention of

several snipers.

COX

hears the order over his radio headset. He races toward the

bridge. As do a dozen other cops.

ON THE BRIDGE

Sid 6.7 talks into the payphone.

PARKER AND MADISON

reach the top of the stairs. Sid 6.7 remains on the phone,

his back toward Parker and Madison. They split-up, winding

their way through the crowd waiting for an arriving bus.

As the bus pulls to the stop, the awaiting passengers move

toward the opening doors. Obscuring Parker's view of the

payphone.

Parker shoves his way through the crowd, only to see Sid 6.7

holding Madison in front of him, his gun to her head. Parker

trains his weapon at Sid 6.7. He doesn't have a clean shot.

THROUGH A SNIPER'S RIFLE SCOPE

Parker's chest is put into the cross-hairs as the bus pulls

away from the stop. He is focused on Parker, and Parker only.

THE SNIPER

is some 300 yards away on a rooftop. His rifle is mounted on

a tripod. His aim is perfectly steady.

Parker stands frozen, staring at Sid 6.7 through his gun

sight. Looking for just an inch of him to stick out from

behind Madison's terrified face.

Cox advances toward Sid 6.7 from the side of the bridge.

Cox's gun out and ready. His finger on the trigger.

Sid 6.7 turns his head in surprise toward Cox as a rifle is

FIRED in the distance. Cox steps directly in the sniper's

line-of-fire and takes the bullet meant for Parker through

the chest. Cox drops to the bridge.

He rushes to Cox. Parker drops to his knees, cradling Cox's

head. Cox isn't long for this earth. Looking up to Parker, he

tries to talk. But nothing comes out.

Cox's eyes roll back in his head. Parker then closes them and

gently lays his head on the sidewalk.

Parker turns his head toward Sid 6.7, who's released Madison

and is jumping over a railing to the street 20 feet below.

Parker rushes to the railing.

ON THE BRIDGE

A dozen cops advance toward Parker. Weapons drawn.

Parker ignores them. He bolts across the street, moving in

the same direction as the bus below. Through speeding

traffic.

Bullets fly. Parker keeps charging. Right in front of a

moving van barreling across the bridge. The cops lose sight

of Parker.

ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE BRIDGE

Parker dives onto the sidewalk, avoiding the speeding van by

inches. Getting to his feet, he launches himself up and over

the railing...

ON THE STREET

The garbage truck passes beneath Parker as he leaps from the

bridge.

ON TOP OF THE GARBAGE TRUCK

Parker lands on the back of the truck. Right next the opening

and-closing steel jaws of the truck's massive trash

compactor. His gun tumbles from his hand, falling to the

street.

Sid 6.7 dives on top of Parker, putting him flat on his

stomach. And his face against the steel teeth. Sid 6.7 chokes

Parker. Hard.

The sanitation worker at the wheel of the truck has no idea

whatsoever what is happening on top of his truck.

THE DOZEN OF COPS

who had been on the bridge, charging down the steps after the

garbage truck, which can no longer be seen.

Madison walks calmly behind them. Scanning the crowd. Looking

for Lindenmeyer. Her every instinct telling her he's here. He

must be.

She spots him. Veering from the direction the cops headed in,

Madison casually wades into the crowd. She takes out her

weapon and stops behind Lindenmeyer. Even in disguise, he

looks familiar. Madison puts her gun against his back.

ON TOP OF THE GARBAGE TRUCK

Parker and Sid 6.7 continue battling next to the compactor's

lethal jaws. The machine makes an awful, grinding sound. Not

unlike the sounds Parker and Sid 6.7 are making. The fight is

primal. Savage. And moving at 30 miles-per-hour.

He should concentrate more on fighting, and less on asking

questions, because he's losing. Parker takes a wicked shot to

the face, and then the groin. Sid 6.7 holds Parker's head

between the compactor's jaws. Which are closing.

With every last ounce of effort he has, Parker hurls his legs

up into Sid 6.7. Which throws Sid 6.7 into the compactor.

The steel jaws immediately close in on Sid 6.7, who

frantically tries to climb out. He gets his hands out. Then

his head. But that's about it.

Without emphasizing graphic detail, Sid 6.7 is decapitated.

His lifeless body drops back into the compactor.

His head tumbles to the street. The force of the impact

causes the Sid 6.7 character module to separate from the

neural net.

The character module scatters into the street. Parker

immediately jumps off the truck after it.

ON THE STREET

Parker's landing isn't pretty. Finally getting to his feet,

he sees the Sid 6.7 character module is about to be run over.

Parker dives for it, nearly getting run over himself.

The approaching car SCREECHES to a halt next to him. It's

driven by Lindenmeyer. At gunpoint. Madison sits behind him,

her gun to his head.

WHAM! The car behind them obviously wasn't prepared to stop

so quickly. The bumpers of the two cars are now intertwined.

Neither vehicle will be going anywhere soon.

Madison pulls Lindenmeyer roughly out of the car. She drags

him to Parker, who is still on his knees, clutching the Sid

6.7 character module. SIRENS approach in the distance.

They scan the area for a new mode of transport. And find one

stopped at a dumpster down the block: the garbage truck.

OUTSIDE THE GARBAGE TRUCK

Parker quickly explains the situation to the sanitation

worker while Madison motions Lindenmeyer into the cab with

her gun. As Parker climbs up to her, Madison shuts the door

to give them a moment of privacy.

ON TOP OF THE GARBAGE TRUCK

Parker lands on the back of the truck. Right next the

openingandclosing steel jaws of the truck's massive trash

compactor. His gun tumbles from his hand, falling to the

street.

This sequence is IDENTICAL to the one you previously

witnessed. It is as if we've jumped back in time.

Sid 6.7 dives on top of Parker, putting him flat on his

stomach. And his face against the steel teeth. Sid 6.7 chokes

Parker. Hard.

The sanitation worker at the wheel of the truck has no idea

whatsoever what is happening on top of his truck.

Parker and Sid 6.7 battle next to the compactor's lethal

jaws. The machine makes an awful, grinding sound. Not unlike

the sounds Parker and Sid 6.7 are making. The fight is

primal. Savage. And moving at 30 miles-perhour.

He should concentrate more on fighting, and less on asking

questions, because he's losing. Parker takes a wicked shot to

the face, and but then blocks the anticipated shot to his

gun.

Sid 6.7 still manages to put Parker's head between the

compactor's jaws. Which are closing.

With every last ounce of effort he has, Parker hurls his legs

up into Sid 6.7. Which throws Sid 6.7 into the compactor.

Sid 6.7 frantically tries to climb out of the compactor as

the steel jaws close in on him. He gets his hands out. Then

his head...

Except Parker now does something different. Just before Sid

6.7 is decapitated, Parker jams a metal rod between the

compactor's steel teeth. Then grabs Sid 6.7 by the throat.

He SLAMS the back of his head into Parker's nose. Breaking

it. Parker reels back in pain.

Sid 6.7 squeezes out from within the steel teeth. The jagged

metal cutting into him, striping him with blood. The blood

then begins to retract. Sid 6.7's wounds, once again, heal

themselves.

As the truck slows at an intersection, he jumps to the

street. Parker goes after him. Still in excruciating pain. WE

PULL BACK TO REVEAL what you are seeing is

ON A MONITOR

The scene continues seamlessly. As you may now be guessing,

the monitor is connected to the simulator

INSIDE LINDENMEYER'S STATION IN LETAC

Parker lies unconscious on a bed. He is connected to the

simulator via the neural connectors in the polyurethane skull

cap, just like he was before.

The Sid 6.7 character module is plugged into the system's

main console. Lindenmeyer sits at the controls. Madison next

to him, her gun aimed at Lindenmeyer's head.

They are both watching Parker chase Sid 6.7 on the monitor in

front of them. Parker continues experiencing intolerable

pain. A clock reads 4:00 AM. They are the only ones inside

the entire facility.

She clicks back the hammer of her gun and presses the barrel

against Lindenmeyer's ear. He does as told. On a panel by the

console, you read: PARTICIPANT PHYSICAL SENSORY LEVEL: 670%.

Lindenmeyer adjusts the sensory level back down to 100%.

ON A MONITOR

Parker immediately returns back to normal. His pace picks up.

He starts closing the gap between him and Sid 6.7 as he races

into a shopping mall.

INSIDE THE SHOPPING MALL

The place is a sevenstory mecca of shopping. An atrium

allows you to look from the ground floor up to the seventh.

Sid 6.7 rushes up the escalators. Going up to the second

floor. Then the third.

Parker follows suit climbing escalator after escalator.

Throwing people out of his way.

ON THE SEVENTH FLOOR

which is also the highest, Sid 6.7 veers out of view. Parker

races up the final steps to the seventh floor. Sid 6.7 is

nowhere to be seen.

Parker searches methodically. Efficiently. He finally spots

Sid 6.7. Who has Parker's head lined-up perfectly in his gun

sight. Parker is a sitting duck. BOOM!

Parker dives behind AFFLUENT SHOPPER 2.1, who takes a bullet

in his ascot. Parker quickly grabs him, and uses his body as

a shield against Sid 6.7's constant gunfire until Parker

arrives behind a marble column.

What he cannot see is that behind the column, Affluent

Shopper 2.1 is Auto Resetting. Parker puts his gun to the

shopper's head.

Affluent Shopper 2.1 nods his head repeatedly. Parker

collects himself behind the column, then pivots out from

behind it. Firing in Sid 6.7's direction. Each bullet finds

its mark.

Absorbing the blows, Sid 6.7 backs up against the atrium

railing. Taking one final shot, he falls backward. Over the

railing.

PARKER'S POV

Sid 6.7 tumbles through the atrium. Out of control.

Speeding toward the ground seven floors below.

SID 6.7'S POV

The sense of momentum is exhilarating. And terrifying. If you

get dizzy easily, close your eyes.

FROM THE FIRST FLOOR

Sid 6.7 falls through the atrium like a rock directly at you.

A 200 pound rock. WHAM!!!

He lands face down in the marble floor. The impact is bone

crushing. Sid 6.7 does not move.

Until he begins to regenerate. His fluids begin returning to

his body. His bones regaining proper form. Within seconds,

his body appears as good as new.

(Technically, because this is VR1 the proper term would be

Auto. Reset. But since Sid 6.7 thinks he's in the real world,

regenerating is what he thinks he's doing.)

Sid 6.7 stands, dusting himself off.

Grabbing his gun, he takes off out of the lobby.

ON THE SEVENTH FLOOR

Parker retrieves his gun, then bolts down the escalators.

INSIDE LETAC

Madison and Lindenmeyer watch Parker on screen. Madison still

has her gun trained on Lindenmeyer, who notices a WARNING

LIGHT start to flash. He turns to Parker's unconscious body

lying on the bed. Lindenmeyer looks concerned.

Lindenmeyer checks several readings on his console.

As Lindenmeyer moves to Parker, Madison stays right with him.

Her gun aimed at Lindenmeyer's head. Lindenmeyer carefully

removes one of the neural connectors from Parker's skull cap.

Before removing another, he looks for a safe place to put the

connector.

Madison is reluctant, but doesn't know what else to do.

Lindenmeyer slowly gives the neural connector to her free

hand.

She clutches the needle in her left hand while aiming her gun

with her right. Lindenmeyer removes a second neural connector

from Parker's skull.

Holding this second needle at the base, Lindenmeyer makes

several adjustments on the neural management computer, then

moves slowly back to Madison.

He suddenly jabs his neural connector into Madison's right

forearm. Madison has no time to react. 10,000 volts of

electricity instantly courses through her body.

Madison drops to the floor, unconscious. The needle she had

been holding falls from her grasp, breaking the circuit. She

stops being electrocuted. Which saves her life.

He sits back down at the simulator's main console, and starts

to type commands. On the monitor, Parker is visible exiting

the shopping mall.

OUTSIDE THE SHOPPING MALL

Parker races out the door. BOOM! That was left knee cap. He

tumbles to the street. His gun flying from his hand.

Parker crawls desperately toward his weapon. But not fast

enough. Sid 6.7 arrives at the weapon first.

He kicks the weapon down the sidewalk, then points his gun at

Parker's head.

Sid 6.7 pauses to think about it.

He shoots Parker in his other knee cap, rendering both of his

legs useless.

OUTSIDE THE NEWLY-CONSTRUCTED HOLLYWOOD TOWER

A 67 story monument to engineering brilliance in this land of

earthquakes. 6:30 PM.

ON THE ROOF OF THE HOLLYWOOD TOWER

The view is incredible. You can see from the Pacific to

downtown. From LAX to the Hollywood Bowl. Smog must be

getting better in the near future.

Sid 6.7 ties Parker to a chair at the roof's very edge. He is

facing downtown. Including the Biltmore Hotel, the location

of Mayor Bennett's ReElection Rally.

He walks toward an open stairway door behind them.

ON HIS WATCH

Time is moving backwards. Literally.

ON THE ROOF OF THE HOLLYWOOD TOWER

Sid 6.7 pauses, then goes over to Parker and checks his

watch. It is also moving backwards. A smile of realization

spreads slowly across Sid 6.7's face as he admires the

beautiful sky above him.

His body DISINTEGRATES before your eyes. It's electronic

particles form into an amorphous cloud. Which disappears from

view.

Lindenmeyer watches Parker scream on the monitor. Madison

remains unconscious on the floor behind him.

He types a set of instructions into the console and hits

ENTER.

He removes the Sid 6.7 character module from its slot and

exits the station.

ON THE ROOF OF THE HOLLYWOOD TOWER

One side of Parker's chair gradually starts to rise. Parker

looks down to see the roof surrealistically swelling beneath

his chair. This could only happen in virtual reality.

In a matter of minutes, he is going to be thrown over the

roof's edge. The next stop is 693 feet down.

INSIDE LETAC

Parker's screams for help ECHO throughout the facility. But

there is no one there to hear him.

OUTSIDE LETAC

The garbage truck is parked in a loading dock. Lindenmeyer

climbs awkwardly onto the truck, then into the compactor.

INSIDE THE GARBAGE TRUCK COMPACTOR

Lindenmeyer wades through trash until he comes upon Sid 6.7's

headless body. The polymer neural net visible within its

neck. Lindenmeyer inserts Sid 6.7's character module into its

gelatinous base. But nothing happens.

The synthetic nervous system begins to crackle with life.

Growing around the module. Forming the beginnings of a new

head. Literally.

PARKER

sitting precariously on the increasingly-uneven roof of the

Hollywood Tower in virtual reality. Unable to break free of

his binds, he rocks the chair onto its side.

He and the chair fall to the roof, which will keep him from

falling to his death for another minute, if he's lucky.

INSIDE LINDENMEYER'S STATION

Madison, still unconscious on the floor, finally stirs. Maybe

Parker's screaming is finally reaching her. Or at least,

starting to.

INSIDE THE GARBAGE TRUCK COMPACTOR

Lindenmeyer looks on with awe as Sid 6.7 grows a new head

right before your eyes. You've never seen anything like it.

Sid 6.7's resulting head is slightly off center. His skin

tone isn't perfect, nor is his color, but at least its

functional. Sid 6.7 admires himself in a broken mirror.

Sid 6.7 wades through the trash toward Lindenmeyer.

He reaches out to give Lindenmeyer a hand, then grabs him by

the throat. Choking him. Lindenmeyer can't believe what is

happening.

Sid 6.7 takes Lindenmeyer's face gently in his hands.

As Lindenmeyer begins to scream, we

PARKER

hanging on by his fingertips to the bulbous roof of the

Hollywood Tower. He's going to fall at any second.

MADISON'S BLURRY POV

of someone entering Lindenmeyer's station in LETAC. You can't

tell who it is, at first. But you can see the person is male.

And wearing Lindenmeyer's pants. You now see the person is

Sid 6.7.

INSIDE LINDENMEYER'S STATION

Madison forces herself into consciousness.- Or as close to it

as she can get. Her expression is one of complete and utter

terror.

Mustering her strength, she manages to crawl behind several

of the computers which make up the simulator. Sid 6.7

advances calmly toward her.

He looks behind the computers where you last saw Madison.

She is no longer there. Sid 6.7 begins searching for her.

He passes a virtual reality monitor on which Parker can be

seen clinging for life.

On the monitor, Parker looks all around him, trying to

determine the voice's origin.

Madison crawls out of Lindenmeyer's station. Sid 6.7 just

catches sight of her, and goes after her.

INSIDE LETAC

Madison crawls into a darkened engineer's station and hides.

She is still very dizzy. And trying to keep the sound of her

breathing to a minimum.

Sid 6.7 enters quietly. A hunter on the prowl. Moving very

slowly. Then lunging very swiftly. He continues the hunt.

If Madison is discovered, she doesn't have a prayer. Her

heart pounds. Her forehead perspires. Sid 6.7 is getting

closer.

Sid 6.7 checks inside closets. Cabinets. Anywhere large

enough for a human being to fit. He is practically standing

over her. Looking. Listening.

Lights in the building suddenly come on. Several engineers

can be heard entering. It's 8 AM  the start of a new day.

The facility is quickly becoming populated.

After giving one last look around, Sid 6.7 reluctantly gives

up the hunt, and exits. Madison does not move until she is

certain Sid 6.7 has left the building.

Madison scrambles out of her hiding place.

PARKER

finally losing his grip on the roof of the Hollywood Tower in

virtual reality. He plummets with accelerating speed.

Madison bursts through the partition around Lindenmeyer's

station. Sacrificing her body. Without regard for pain.

Parker tumbles toward the sidewalk 67 stories below. The

speed is terrifying.

Madison leaps over a table. Diving for the simulator's RETURN

button.

Parker falls faster. And faster. The street just beneath him.

The instant before he slams into the street, his body DE

MATERIALIZES.

INSIDE LINDENMEYER'S STATION

Madison keeps pressing the return button over and over,

making sure it worked. Parker's eyes flutter as he returns to

consciousness. Madison rushes to him.

Several engineers peek in curiously at them.

She helps Parker to his feet.

PARKER AND MADISON

at a payphone outside a minimall. Could be any one of the

10,000 in Los Angeles. It's late morning.

INSIDE COX'S OFFICE

Elizabeth Deane picks up the phone.

He hangs up the phone.

DOZENS OF DEMOLITIONS TEAMS

checking every subway tunnel, water pipe, gas pipe, and sewer

pipe that goes under, over, or into Dallas Arena. The effort

is massive. Intensive. The clock is ticking. 6:00 and

counting.

INSIDE THE BILTMORE HOTEL, MAIN LOBBY

The area has been converted into a security checkpoint.

Entrants are carefully scanned onebyone. WE HEAR the rally

OFF SCREEN.

OUTSIDE BILTMORE HOTEL

Security is on extreme alert. Tension is very high. It's

7:00. Parker, Madison, and Deane look on, anxiously. They

listen to a RADIO SCANNER monitoring the conversations

between the demolitions teams.

INSIDE A LARGE SEWER PIPE

A threeman demolition team slowly, carefully disarms the

bomb Sid 6.7 had secured to the automated sewer cleaning

vehicle. Snip. One wire at a time. Snip.

The work is very delicate. Snip. One wrong move and it's all

over. Snip.

Snip. The three members of the demo team look up proudly to

each other. Breathing sighs of relief. It's 7:42.

OUTSIDE THE BILTMORE HOTEL

Parker, Madison, and Deane remain glued to their scanner.

Cheers are heard around the area from the other cops who'd

been listening in.

INSIDE THE SEWER PIPE

The Team Leader carefully removes a piece of paper which had

been taped to the timing mechanism. Written in handwriting,

you read: HEY, PARKER, THE FUN IS ONLY STARTING!

OUTSIDE THE BILTMORE HOTEL

Deane stares at Parker with disbelief. Deane's Aide, holding

a cellular phone, approaches Parker.

Parker grabs the phone.

INSIDE THE CAL TECH COMPUTER LAB

Alexiev Borgen sits with a dismantled MAESTRO keyboard in

front of him.

Madison's reaction is one of panic. She bolts toward their

squad car with all the speed she has. Parker chases after

her.

She gets into the driver's seat. Parker the passenger's.

Madison punches the gas.

INSIDE THE HOLLYWOOD BOWL

The members of the L. A. Philharmonic tune-up for the

evening's payperview extravaganza. Several teenage

musicians sit with them.

Lights, cameras, and production trucks are all over the

place. This really is going to be one hell of a show.

SID 6.7

who is dressed in a tuxedo, knocking on the door to Guest

Conductor's Dressing Room.

The door is opened by the GUEST CONDUCTOR, who is dressed in

a tuxedo, as well as large earrings. His hair is long and

red. His complexion is pale, nearly white. And his eyes are

piercing green. You might describe this look as punk meets

classical.

Shaking with concentration, Sid 6.7 turns his hair red.

(Nanoorganisms can do this, as well as the following.) He

then grabs his hair and pulls it out, extending it to the

exact length of the guest conductor's.

Sid 6.7 then changes his complexion to match the conductor's.

As well as his eye color, and other facial features. The

Guest Conductor can't believe his eyes.

By the time Sid 6.7 is finished modifying himself, he may not

be an exact duplicate of the guest conductor, but even his

mother would have to look twice.

He shoves the Guest Conductor back into his Dressing Room.

Sid 6.7 follows him in, revealing a suppressed .38. He SLAMS

the door behind him.

INSIDE THE SQUAD CAR

Madison speeds recklessly through traffic toward the

Hollywood Bowl. Parker doesn't notice. He's totally focused

on screaming into the police radio.

THE GUEST CONDUCTOR

whose back is to the audience, leading the orchestra in a

truly magnificent performance of Tchaikovsky's Fifth Symphony

inside the Hollywood Bowl.

The Guest Conductor waves his baton wildly. Passionately.

Brilliantly. Getting the absolute best from the members of

the orchestra.

The musicians exhilarate in the challenge of being pushed to

their musical limit.

As the Guest Conductor turns to the next page of his sheet

music on the podium, you notice seven small, HIGH-FREQUENCY

SENSORS above an upcoming musical measure.

The sensors are wired together. When the seven notes are

played in sequence, an electrical pulse will be triggered

down the wires which run down the side of the podium, beneath

the stage.

BENEATH THE STAGE

The wires connect to several crates of C4 positioned beneath

the orchestra. These seven notes will be the last notes these

musicians ever play.

OUTSIDE THE HOLLYWOOD BOWL

Madison SCREECHES the vehicle to a halt. She comes within

inches of mowing down several people. Madison and Parker bolt

to the entrance, flashing their badges to the guards.

INSIDE THE HOLLYWOOD BOWL

The Guest Conductor's movements grow even more intense. More

demanding. As he looks to the violin section, we now see the

conductor's face. It is Sid 6.7.

The orchestra plays with everything they've got. They hit

every note perfectly. Including a high C.

ON THE CONDUCTOR'S PODIUM

The first sensor is triggered. Then the second.

PARKER AND MADISON

appear at the back of the stage. Guns raised. Distracting the

musicians. As Parker and Madison charge through the horn

section toward Sid 6.7, the musicians stop playing.

ON THE CONDUCTOR'S PODIUM

The fifth sensor is triggered. Then the sixth...But not the

seventh.

SID 6.7

cannot believe his eyes. Or his ears. The entire orchestra

has stopped.

In his rage, his face contorts "past points", which can only

be described bizarre, frightening, and not, something you

would ever like to see when you look in the mirror.

The musicians stare at Sid 6.7, and then at Parker and

Madison with concerned, confused silence. Which is broken by

Parker's gunfire.

Ducking behind the podium, Sid 6.7 desperately tries to

rewire the sensors to trigger manually. Without luck. He

takes his .38 out of his jacket and starts firing.

Pandemonium erupts throughout the Hollywood Bowl. Audience

members run in every direction.

The members of the orchestra bolt for their very lives, but

keep their instruments with them. Even the oboist.

Preventing Parker and Madison from taking any further shots

at Sid 6.7.

Sid 6.7 bolts down into the crowd. Madison cannot get off a

clean shot. Neither can Parker. He aims, but does NOT fire.

He and Madison struggle through the crowd after him.

OUTSIDE THE HOLLYWOOD BOWL

Parker and Madison just catch a glimpse of Sid 6.7 as he

rushes up the entrance ramp to the Hollywood Freeway. Parker

and Madison bolt after him.

ON THE HOLLYWOOD FREEWAY

Parker and Madison race past the cars waiting to merge into

what is effectively a parking lot. As is normal for this

thoroughfare, traffic is at a standstill.

Sid 6.7 is nowhere to be seen. Parker and Madison splitup,

wading through different lanes of traffic. Startling the

already frustrated motorists. Who roll up their windows. Lock

their doors. And some of whom reveal weapons of their own.

Madison pauses, listening. She has no idea that Sid 6.7 steps

behind her. WHAM! He cold cocks her with the butt of his gun.

Madison crumples to the street.

Which now leaves Parker a clean shot at Sid 6.7's head. BOOM!

BOOM! Two hits. Two head wounds. Sid 6.7 falls behind a

truck, losing his weapon.

Before Sid 6.7's wounds have finished regenerating, Parker is

already on top of him.

He empties his clip into Sid 6.7, then discards the gun. As

Sid 6.7's wounds heal themselves, Parker pounds him

mercilessly.

Trading blows, he manages to get to his feet.

He knocks Parker back with a good shot to the face, then

disappears around a van.

Parker continues the hunt. Quietly. Carefully. Tension grows

in the silence that follows.

He carefully makes his way around a truck. Only to see Sid

6.7 swinging a two-by-four directly at his head. WHAM!!!

Parker is knocked on his ass. Daze4. Blood streams down his

cheek. He staggers to his feet, blocking another blow with

his arm. Which SNAPS the wood in two.

Parker grabs one of the boards. He battles with Sid 6.7.

The fight between Parker and Sid 6.7 is intense. Exhausting.

Parker gives it everything he has.

Madison appears behind Parker, holding his gun. She wavers,

having trouble keeping her balance. She has even more trouble

aiming her weapon.

She moves around, trying to get a clean shot at Sid 6.7.

Which she does not have.

Without hesitation, Parker hits the deck. Leaving Sid 6.7

completely exposed. Madison steadies her sight.

As he raises his twobyfour high over Parker's head, Madison

pulls the trigger smoothly.

IN SLOW MOTION, you follow the bullet as it exits the barrel

of her gun. And penetrates Sid 6.7's skull between the eyes

and exits out the back of his head.

Sid 6.7 collapses on the ground next to Parker.

She does so. Parker reaches OUT OF FRAME to remove the Sid

6.7 character module from within his skull. Then reveals the

character module in hand.

Glancing in the flatbed of a truck, Parker gets an idea, and

knocks on the driver's window. As the DRIVER rolls down his

window, classic ROCK & ROLL MUSIC can be heard from inside.

Parker removes two sledgehammers from the back of the truck.

He offers one to Madison.

Madison gladly accepts takes the sledgehammer. Parker drops

the Sid 6.7 character module onto the pavement. And together,

they start pounding the shit out of it. WHAM! WHAM! In

perfect time with the music. Which the driver cranks even

louder. As we ROLL CREDITS.

THE END

