INTRO

Inspired by a true story.

We home in on a boat coming in to shore. Off walks a man, he

is carrying a backpack and wearing shades.

EXT. TOWN

He walks through a town, passing various stores and the general

bustle of the people there. He notices a baby in a pram left

out on the sidewalk, then sees the mother is in an alleyway doing

what looks like a drug deal.

EXT. LUMBER YARD

Chris reads a closure notice on the door. A police car rolls

up.

Chris turns around and the sheriff notices his name on a bag.

The sheriff chuckles and steps out of the car.

They shake hands.

Chris raises his hands and the sheriff chuckles.

INT. POLICE CAR

EXT. THE FAMILY HOME

Chris takes the paper and smiles. He walks up the lane toward

the house, a simple white building clad in wood. A lady dressed

in a police uniform comes out.

Chris laughs.

They laugh together.

Chris hugs his mother, Connie. A man slowly emerges from the

front door.

They hug again.

INT. KITCHEN

The family are eating takeaway.

A kid walks in.

INT. BEDROOM

We can see from the window that it's raining heavily outside.

Chris sets about unpacking his things. Pete comes in looking

wet.

Pete looks at him.

Chris looks at him.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOUSE

A crappy camper van rolls up. A man steps out.

They hug.

Ray shrugs.

EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD

A group of guys are there waiting, one of them holding a ball.

They salute as Chris walks up. They all laugh.

a voice shouts 'HEADS UP' Chris catches a fast ball thrown from

behind. Jay steps out of his vehicle.

Another truck with a few guys on it pulls up

A football game ensues, there are two teams. Jay's guys vs Chris'

guys. On the sidelines Pete pulls up on a small motorcycle. Chris

notices Pete hanging around with kids smoking. It comes down

to the last play, the teams are huddled into two groups talking.

Chris gets the ball and throws it. An opponent comes in hard

and tackles him low. He collapses. Ray runs for the ball but

gets clotheslined by Jay.

Chris Helps Ray onto his feet.

Jay speeds off in his car. Pete rolls up on his bike.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE WILD CHERRY CASINO

They all laugh.

INT. WILD CHERRY CASINO

The place is packed with gambling tables and attractive women.

INT. VIP LOUNGE

They all down some drinks. They lead Chris down a corridor.

Chris' friends have led him to a stripping booth, his friend

inserts the money.

His friends leave, closing the door behind them.

A screen goes up and a striptease begins. The lady is dressed

in the style of a firewoman and has a pole in the center of the

stage. She dances around the pole and removes clothes.

The lights come on.

The screen goes down again, Chris leaves the booth.

INT. CASINO

INT. CRAPS TABLE

Chris notices something odd, he looks concerned.

The dice have landed and it's a 7. Jimmy hangs his head.

Chris puts a load of money on the table.

Chris has taken the dice.

Chris rolls the dice and sure enough it's a seven.

The security guy grabs Chris around the neck. Chris elbows him

and throws him onto the table. The croupier takes a fighting

stance. Jimmy taps Chris on the shoulder.

More security men appear, one of them knocks Jimmy out. A whole

fight breaks out, Ray gets knocked out. Chris beats off several

security men before taking an electric shock to the neck and

a baton to the face. Chris wakes up on a table under a light.

Chris grabs him by the neck but they beat him down again.

He rips open Chris' shirt.

A struggle ensues and Chris' chest is cut up.

EXT. A BRIDGE

We see Chris is crawling, badly hurt. A truck stops directly

in front of him. Chris passes out again.

INT. HOSPITAL

The doctor nods.

INT. HOSPITAL WARD

Ray goes into a room and takes a big bunch of flowers from there.

INT. CHRIS HOSPITAL BED

Chris begins to laugh but is in pain.

EXT. FAMILY HOUSE

Chris has returned home. He's still in bad shape and his parents

help him out of the car. He insists on taking the steps by himself.

Chris laughs.

INT. LOUNGE

A montage ensues with Chris on the couch, sometimes with Ray,

other times with Pete. Chris is recovering, and is exercising

by the end of it.

INT. GARAGE

Chris pulls the cover off an old truck. He smiles and gets in.

He starts the engine.

INT. CAR

They laugh.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOUSE

Jay pulls up in his car.

Jay starts to help Chris taking wood off the truck but Chris

throws it back on.

He puts down an envelope with money in it. Chris gives it back

to him.

INT. POLICE STATION

An officer is on the phone ignoring him.

The sheriff comes out.

INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Deni is at the door.

She hands him a leather jacket.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOUSE

She begins to drive off.

She toots the horn as she goes.

INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Connie is on the phone.

EXT. OUTSIDE SOME GARAGE

The Vaughn's truck pulls up at speed. They enter a garage, Pete

is on a stretcher.

Chris approaches the kid.

Chris gets into his truck.

Chris speeds off. He pulls up at their home and enters the garage.

Chris is searching about and forces open a cupboard.

Chris pulls out a shotgun and loads it.

Chris drives to the casino, he cocks the shotgun but decides

to leave it in the truck. Instead he takes a piece of wood from

the back of his truck. He enters the casino with it. He smashes

a fruit machine. A guard comes up and Chris beats him. A fight

scene breaks out with Chris beating the guards and generally

trashing the place. He takes back his special forces dogtag from

the guard who stole it. Chris hurls his piece of wood at the

VIP lounge window, smashing it to pieces. Jay emerges from behind

it.

Chris leaves. As he drives off in his truck, police cars appear

with sirens going. He pulls over.

INT. POLICE STATION ROOM

We see a montage of casino workers badmouthing Chris.

INT. COURTROOM

The crowd breaks into cheer. Chris takes a tag from his piece

of cedar wood which is laying on the evidence table.

The crowds fade away with chants of 'Sheriff Vaughn'.

EXT. POLICE STATION

Chris pulls up to the station in his police truck, it's clear

he's now the sheriff.

INT. POLICE STATION

Chris takes a look around.

EXT. A COUNTRY ROAD

Jay is speeding along in a sportscar. He is pulled over by a

police truck.

Jay hands it over.

Chris hands it over.

Chris smashes up the back end of Jay's car with his trusty piece

of cedar wood.

EXT. RAY'S PLACE

Chris tosses Ray a badge.

A montage ensues, with Chris and Ray busting various drug dealers.

EXT. DEALER'S HOUSE

Music plays while the two chop up the dealer's car into pieces

while laughing.

INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Chris is in the room with a shotgun.

INT. POLICE STATION

Booth is locked up, Ray is taunting him through a loudspeaker.

Chris has walked in.

Chris hands him the shotgun.

NIGHT TIME

Deni comes into the police station.

Chris grabs her and they kiss.

INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Ray is on the couch and has just woken to a noise.

INT. POLICE STATION

EXT. WILD CHERRY CASINO

Jay calls a number on his celphone.

INT. POLICE STATION

A loud explosion happens, it's Chris' police truck outside.

Chris steps towards the front of the building but men outside

open fire, Chris ducks for cover.

INT. FAMILY HOUSE

INT. POLICE STATION

Men with machine guns are still firing at the police station.

Deni's screaming, Booth is cheering.

Chris gives Deni a pistol.

INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Ray steps into the kitchen but gunmen have infiltrated the home.

A fight breaks out and Pete flees. Ray jumps onto the back of

a gunman.

INT. POLICE STATION

Chris shoots up the floor with a shotgun and breaks a hole in

it.

INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Ray stabs the gunman with a potato peeler and knocks him out

with a frying pan.

INT. POLICE STATION

They get down into the hole in the floor.

Booth is now under fire and is scared.

INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Two other gunmen in stocking masks are holding the family hostage

upstairs.

The gunman takes off his mask and hits him with a pistol.

He goes downstairs to find Burke dead on the kitchen floor. He

follows traces of blood across the floor.

INT. POLICE STATION

Chris is making his way towards Booth under fire.

Gunshots hit near booth.

INT. FAMILY HOUSE

The gunman enters a room, Ray is there pointing a shotgun at

him.

INT. POLICE STATION

Booth is standing and gets shot dead.

INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Ray shoots the gunman, who falls to the floor.

UPSTAIRS

INT. POLICE STATION

Booth is dead so Chris leaves him there.

INT. FAMILY HOUSE

UPSTAIRS

Gunman 2 looks away for a second and Michelle kicks him down

the stairs. As he tumbles down Ray reloads his shotgun. The two

begin firing at each other, taking cover behind the furniture.

INT. POLICE STATION

One of the men outside has a canister. Watkins gives him the

nod and he begins walking towards the station. Chris is beneath

the floor and shoots him in the legs. The two remaining men outside

open fire again. Another gunman tries to approach but he's shot

in the legs as well. Watkins enters the station and fires repeatedly

at the floor.

Deni fires off some shots. Watkins is distracted by the shots,

Chris appears in the floor hole and blasts Watkins at close range

with a shotgun.

Chris climbs out of the hole and they hug.

INT. FAMILY HOUSE

Shots are still being fired in the lounge. Ray and the gunman

begin to wrestle. Ray wins and punches the man repeatedly. Chris

has come back to the house and tries to pull Ray off the man,

Ray mistakenly hits Chris in the face.

Chris helps Ray over to a chair, Ray has taken a shot to the

leg.

The injured gunman from the kitchen appears brandishing a pistol.

Chris and Ray hold up their hands. He aims at Ray but he's shot

in the back of the head by Dad who is approaching down the stairs.

Dad nods.

EXT. THE MILL

Chris is in a police car driving at speed. He approaches the

mill and busts through the locked gates.

INT. THE MILL

The mill is dark, Chris is finding his way around using a torch.

He finds Jay sitting.

Jay hits a metal saw which resonates making a metallic sound.

Jay stands up and holds up his hands.

Jay hits a switch on the floor which opens a hatch. Chris falls

into the hatch but hangs onto the saw which is swinging over

it.

Jay hits more switches, powering up the machinery.

Jay hits Chris in the stomach with a pole a few times. Chris

grabs the pole and they both fall. Chris has hurt his leg. Chris

stumbles off into the woods. Jay grabs an axe and goes after

him, he swings the axe but misses and they both fall down a large

earthy embankment. At the bottom they come to their senses and

begin fighting again, Jay with his axe and Chris with a log he's

ripped off a tree. Chris knocks Jay out by hitting him hard in

the legs.

INT. WILD CHERRY CASINO

Chris and Ray are packing everything, the place is boarded up.

They laugh as they drive off. The mill makes a horn noise.

FADE OUT

