FADE IN:

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - NIGHT

A quiet upper-middle class neighborhood. The CAMERA is at

the curb, looking down the street. There are no sidewalks.

Trees arch overhead. CICADAS drone on the soundtrack.

The OPENING TITLES briefly FADE IN and OUT, framed by the

trees on either side of the street. Footsteps are heard

approaching.

As the picture TITLE FADES, out of the dark emerges a GIRL

17 years old, carrying schoolbooks. This is JILL. CAMERA

PANS with her ninety degrees as she comes to the front of a

house and stops.

Lights are on in the bottom half of the house, and the

curtains across the windows are open. A single light burns

in the upper right side of the house, presumable in a bedroom,

but the curtains in the room are drawn.

A scene TITLE appears on the lower half of the screen:

The TITLE FADES, and Jill heads up the walk to the front

door of the house.

The light in the upper floor of the house is turned off.

INT. HOUSE - FRONT HALL

A middle-aged DOCTOR is standing at the foot of the stairs.

His WIFE is descending the stairs, putting on her earrings.

She is in an obvious hurry.

The doorbell rings.

He crosses to the front door and opens it. The girl smiles

at him uncomfortably from outside.

The wife comes back into the front hall.

Jill shakes her head.

They cross to the front door and begin to exit.

The doctor pokes his head back through the door.

The doctor pulls the door shut behind him. Jill turns toward

the living room. Pause. She walks into the living room and

sets her books down on a table with the telephone on it.

O.S. we hear the car doors close, the engine start up, then

the car backing out the driveway and heading down the street.

INT. DINING ROOM - LATER

It is dark. O.S. we hear the phone in the living room being

lifted off its receiver, a dial tone, then a number is dialed.

Pause, then ringing. CAMERA SLOWLY DOLLIES from the dining

room, across the front hall and into the living room where

we see Jill talking over the phone to a girlfriend, NANCY.

Pause.

Long pause.

Pause.

Pause.

Jill makes a face at the phone and hangs up. She tries to go

back to her homework, but she cannot.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

Jill is working now, diligently. The phone rings. She picks

it up.

There is a brief pause; then the line goes dead and a dial

tone cuts in. Jill hangs up and goes back to work.

Pause.

The phone rings again. Jill picks it up.

A VOICE speaks on the other end of the phone.

The line goes dead. Dial tone. Jill hangs up and goes right

back to work.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

Jill sits at the table as before, doing her homework, smoking

a cigarette. The phone rings. Jill picks it up.

The line goes dead. Dial tone. Jill hangs up and looks off

into space, thinking.

O.S. we hear a faint rattling noise from somewhere in the

house. Jill hears it too. She stubs out her cigarette, gets

up from the table and walks out of the living room.

INT. HALLWAY

Jill enters the hallway and pauses. Then she starts walking

slowly down the hall to the kitchen door.

Again the rattling noise O.S., only louder this time. Jill

stops dead, listens, then continues forward even more

cautiously.

INT. KITCHEN

As Jill enters. She cannot find the lightswitch, so she stands

in the darkness listening. Again the rattle, very close now.

Jill turns her head sharply, then walks to the refrigerator

and opens it. It is only the automatic icemaker creating the

rattle.

Jill takes a piece of cake from the refrigerator and leaves

the kitchen.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Jill is sitting at the table, polishing off the cake. Then,

the phone rings. Jill stands up quickly and picks up the

phone.

Pause.

Pause. "Billy" doesn't answer.

The line goes dead. Jill stands frozen beside the table with

the phone in her hand as the dial tone gets louder and louder.

INT. LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Jill is standing at the wet bar in the corner, pouring herself

a drink. She samples the alcohol, doesn't cough, and starts

to pour a little more into the glass.

The phone rings. Jill turns, then slowly walks to the table,

kneels down and quietly picks up the phone and brings it to

her ear. She waits and listens, a full three seconds. No

sound comes to her.

She quickly hangs up the phone before the silence can be

broken by the voice she knows is waiting on the other end.

Then, she shuffles through her books and papers on the table-

top until she finds the notepad the doctor's wife has left

for her with the name and phone number of the restaurant.

Jill picks up the phone and dials. After several rings...

Jill waits for several seconds until the Maitre D' comes

back on the line.

She hangs up, thinks for a moment, then picks up the phone

again and dials "O"...

Pause.

Jill hangs up. After thinking for a moment, she tries a couple

of ways of whistling as loud as she can, but frustrated and

feeling foolish, she soon gives up.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

Jill is sitting in an armchair facing the TV set. The TV is

on, but she is bored. She runs through several channels,

then gets up and turns the TV off.

She looks around and moves aimlessly back to the table, but

O.S. a dog is barking and she is drawn to the window. A car

passes outside, its lights reflecting off the window and

Jill's face.

Then the phone rings. Jill moves quickly from the window to

the table and answers the phone.

Pause.

Stunned, Jill hangs up the phone. She turns and goes slowly

back to the window. She pulls the shutters closed in front

of the window. Then she walks out of the living room.

INT. FRONT HALL

Jill goes to the front door, turns the bolt and draws the

chain across the door. Then she starts to go upstairs.

The phone rings. She stops halfway up the stairs. She turns

and comes back down the stairs to answer the phone, but then

thinks better of it. She sits on the bottom step and lets

the phone ring and ring...

Finally, it stops. Jill gets up and heads into the living

room.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Jill goes to the table, picks up the phone and dials...

Pause.

Jill hangs up the phone and looks forlornly off into space.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

Jill is sitting on the sofa, a drink in one hand, a cigarette

in the other. She is waiting. She sets her glass down, stubs

out the cigarette, leans back and sighs. She is very tense.

Then the phone rings. She rises from the sofa and slowly

crosses to the table. She sits down and picks up the phone.

During this conversation it becomes apparent that the VOICE

has a slight English accent.

Pause.

Pause. No answer.

Pause. Jill is terrified.

Pause. Jill searches for some way of answering him.

The line goes dead. Jill hangs up. She stands. She starts to

shake.

The phone rings and Jill snatches it up.

Jill hangs up. She stands frozen in shock. Several seconds

go by. She doesn't move.

Then the phone rings. She turns and tiptoes toward the front

door. Halfway there, the phone stops ringing. She pauses for

a second, then continues.

INT. FRONT HALL

Jill reaches the front door. Carefully, quietly, she turns

the bolt. Then O.S. she hears a creak. She turns and looks

up the staircase. At the top, a door is opening. Someone is

coming out! A mumbling sound is heard on the sound track.

Jill whirls around back to the door and yanks at it. It opens,

but only an inch. The chain is still across it! She

frantically works to get the chain free. After agonizing

seconds, the chain falls clear and the door swings open.

Standing there on the other side of the door, is a police

Detective, JOHN CLIFFORD. (We have cut ahead in time some

twenty or thirty minutes.) Behind him on the street, several

patrol cars and an ambulance are pulled up at the curb, their

domelights silently flashing.

Clifford sighs and steps into the front hall. The door is

closed by the uniformed COP with whom Clifford has been

speaking. The cop is a man in his thirties. His name is

CHARLES GARBER. Garber and Clifford stand in the front hall

and talk as POLICEMEN and AMBULANCE ATTENDANTS move around

them. In the living room beyond can be seen several other

POLICEMEN, Dr. Mandrakis and his wife.

As Garber delivers his final line, we see ambulance attendants

dressed in white, taking a sheet-covered stretcher out the

front door.

FADE IN:

EXT. STREET - LATER AFTERNOON

An upper-class neighborhood. The CAMERA is facing down the

street. A car approaches the intersection at the end of the

block, turns and comes slowly up the street.

Because it is not a new car or an expensive car, and because

it is moving at a rate which suggests that its sole male

occupant is looking for house numbers, we can assume that

the DRIVER is a visitor to this neighborhood.

The CAMERA PANS with the car ninety degrees as it turns into

the semi-circular driveway of a mansion and rolls up to the

front door.

A TITLE appears across the bottom of the screen:

As the TITLE FADES, the driver shuts off the car engine and

opens the door to get out.

INT. MANSION - DAY

The doorbell rings. A HOUSEBOY comes into the front hall,

goes to the door and opens it for the visitor. It is John

Clifford, the detective from six years ago.

He has aged noticeably over the years. His hair is grayer,

his stance not so aggressive, but his eyes still smoulder

with the accumulated frustration of having spent years in an

uncertain, sometimes unsatisfying, and frequently unsafe

occupation.

No words are exchanged as the houseboy leads Clifford across

the entrance hall and up an imposing flight of stairs. Still

keen in his observation of things, Clifford quickly takes in

this new atmosphere.

The house is richly decorated but with an underlying theme

of melancholy. There are no bright or cheerful furnishings,

and the houseboy advances with guarded tread, his face steady

and reverent.

The houseboy stops before a door at the top of the staircase

and raps lightly on it with his knuckles. Without waiting

for an answer, he opens the door and steps aside for Clifford

to enter.

Clifford pauses briefly, then walks into what appears to be

an upstairs study.

INT. STUDY - DAY

A MAN is sitting behind a desk which faces the door.

Presumably he is the master of the house. Although his face

is hidden in shadows, we can see from his hands that he is

engaged in writing something down.

Clifford quietly approaches the desk and takes a seat in

front of it. Then, vaguely in keeping with the spirit of the

house, he waits to be spoken to rather than interrupt the

pervasive stillness.

After a moment, the master of the house lays down his pen

and leans back in his chair. Pause.

Pause.

Pause.

Clifford lowers his eyes, doesn't answer.

The master of the house leans way forward over his desk, and

his face comes out of the shadows and into the light. It is

Dr. Mandrakis.

He seems much older. His complexion is pallid. His eyes stare

out from beneath his brow like a wounded animal hiding in a

dark cave.

They look at each other for a long moment of acknowledgment.

Then Mandrakis stands up with a sigh.

Clifford stands and they shake hands.

Clifford turns to go.

INT. MANSION - STAIRCASE & ENTRANCE HALL

As Clifford finds his own way down the stairs and out the

front door.

A WOMAN watches Clifford leave from the back of the staircase.

It is Mrs. Mandrakis. As with her husband, the change in her

is remarkable. She is now a brooding, barren woman.

O.S. the front door closes. Clifford is gone. Mrs. Mandrakis

walks around the front of the stairs and begins slowly

ascending them.

The houseboy silently steps into the entrance hall from a

side door and watches her.

INT. A HALLWAY - MENTAL INSTITUTION - DAY

A male PATIENT wearing green, institutional pajamas and

slippers shuffles slowly up the hall. His movement is

catatonic, unfocused.

Canned Musak faintly underscores the scene.

ANGLE ON CLIFFORD

Standing in the doorway of an office, facing into the hall,

watching the patient.

ANGLE ON PATIENT

Moving past CAMERA. He is really out of it. It is a

depressing, vaguely unnerving sight.

ANGLE ON CLIFFORD

He turns and goes back into the office.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

We see now the MAN who's been talking -- the director of the

State Hospital, DR. MONK. He is sitting comfortably behind

his desk; his jacket off, his tie loosened, his feet up on

the desk. He is very matter-of-fact.

Clifford sits down in front of the desk, picks up a folder

and leafs through it.

Monk shrugs, then yawns expansively. He needn't justify

himself to the layman.

DR. MONK'S SECRETARY enters the office and hands him a folder.

Without interrupting the delivery of his lines, Monk takes

the folder, opens it, initials something on the inside, closes

the folder and hands it back to the secretary who turns and

leaves the office without uttering a word.

Pause. Clifford looks at the doctor as if questioning his

casual assessment of "some deterioration."

Clifford directs a bleak look back down at the open folder,

then looks up again, his eyes narrowing.

Pause.

They glare at each other for several seconds. Monk is the

first one to look away.

Monk rises and walks to a window.

Monk looks back out the window.

EXT. CITY STREET - LATE AFTERNOON

Not a terribly good section of town. We are looking at the

nondescript exterior of a bar across the street.

INT. BAR

This is not a slum bar, but it's close. There are a few tables

and chairs and a pool table in the back. The atmosphere is

quiet, almost depressed, and the handful of REGULARS here

are exercising their privacy without having to be alone.

They include: HANK, the bartender, also the owner, who

absently polishes things with his cloth; TRACY, an unemployed

woman in her mid-forties who sits at the bar with a drink

and a cigarette and silently rummages through her current

feelings -- none of them new or particularly hopeful; a

COUPLE, probably retired, sitting at the same table they

come to every afternoon at this time -- him for his beer,

her for a glass of sweet white wine; and BILL, at the pool

table, a young man lithe and powerful, minding his own

business and playing his game of pool with a steady,

aggressive concentration.

Pause.

The old man smiles stupidly around the room. He racked 'em

up a little in his day, too. His smile fades as he looks at

his wife. He takes a sip of beer and lapses into memories.

Then the door opens to the outside and the yellow-orange

light of late afternoon floods into the bar. The regulars

turn to glimpse who's coming in. They see the figure of a

MAN silhouetted in the doorway. He stands there for a long

moment, not coming in. Finally even Bill interrupts his game

to turn and look.

The intruder enters, indecisively. The door swings shut behind

him, plunging the room back into darkness. This man is "a

little weird", and the regulars continue to stare at him

until he makes his way to a table near the wall and sits

down. Then everyone returns to his own thoughts.

CLOSEUP - INTRUDER

A bit startled, a bit defensive toward the directness of

this question. It is Curt Duncan. He looks understandably

harried. He hasn't slept or shaved in at least a couple of

days, and is wearing regular clothing.

He clears his throat to answer...

INT. DR. MONK'S OFFICE -DAY

Clifford is looking through the folder again.

Looking down, Clifford pauses over a page in the folder.

CLOSEUP - FACT SHEET IN FOLDER

A page of legibly organized facts and statistics about Curt

Duncan. One of the entries reads: Guy du Marraux.

BACK TO SCENE

He opens a file cabinet drawer, finds a reel of quarter-inch

magnetic tape and starts to thread it through a recorder on

his desk.

There is a pause as Monk fiddles with the tape recorder and

Clifford looks back down at the folder.

Clifford smiles. Monk keeps fiddling.

Monk turns on the tape recorder as Clifford sits forward in

his chair to listen.

At first, nothing can be heard. Then there is a click as if

the machine was turned on in the middle of a conversation:

Clifford nods and keeps listening:

There are scuffling noises underneath which can be heard,

heavy breathing and then, getting louder and more furious,

Duncan falling into the throes of Guy du Marraux.

Finally Monk is heard no more and Duncan continues with the

frightening verbal torrent of Guy du Marraux.

INT. BAR - LATE AFTERNOON - CLOSEUP - DUNCAN

Sitting at his table inside the bar. He takes a long, noisy

drink from what looks like a bourbon on the rocks. It tastes

good, being the first real drink he's had in over six years.

But Duncan cannot relax enough to enjoy it fully. His eyes

are ever restlessly, suspiciously moving about.

ANGLE ON BAR

As Bill walks up and stands next to Tracy. Hank moves off to

get Bill another beer.

Tracy looks up at Bill and smiles. As regulars at the same

bar, they are loose and comfortable with each other.

They both turn and look across the room at Duncan.

POV - DUNCAN

As Bill and Tracy look straight at him over their shoulders

and then turn back.

ANGLE ON BAR

As they both smile at her joke.

Tracy grimaces as Hank comes back with Bill's beer. Bill

picks up the bottle, nods his thanks to Hank and heads back

to the pool table.

CLOSEUP - DUNCAN

As his eyes follow Bill to the pool table, then come back to

Tracy at the bar.

POV - DUNCAN

Looking at the back of Tracy. She reaches into her purse.

ON TRACY

She takes her pack of cigarettes from the purse. She pulls

out a cigarette, taps it lightly on the bar, puts it to her

lips.

O.S. we hear the sound of a match being struck.

WIDER ANGLE

Duncan is standing beside her holding a lit match. He shoves

it forward at her. It goes out.

Duncan fumbles for another match as Tracy regards him with

undisguised repulsion. Duncan gets the second match lit and

holds it out for her. She accepts the favor and lights her

cigarette.

Duncan smiles. Tracy nods and turns away. Duncan is still

holding the burning match for her to blow out. As it doesn't

look like she's going to, he lets it drop, still lit, to the

floor.

REACTION SHOT - BARTENDER

He gives a look as if to say, "Jesus, what a fuckin' weirdo".

TWO SHOT - DUNCAN AND TRACY

Pause. Duncan is still smiling at her.

No response.

The Englishman sits down beside her, but doesn't look at

her.

Tracy looks away too, determined to ignore him, not to let

him get into her space.

Duncan coughs. After a long moment, he turns back to her.

Tracy keeps her eyes straight ahead, acknowledging nothing.

Pause.

Duncan takes some money from his pocket and lays it on the

bar, staring at her. Tracy turns to him:

She looks away again. Pause.

Longer pause.

Tracy abruptly picks up her purse and moves down the bar

away from him one seat, then another seat.

ANGLE ON ELDERLY COUPLE

They are watching this little spectacle with growing

curiosity.

ANGLE ON DUNCAN

Still looking at her. By pointing at what she has, he orders

two more drinks from the Bartender. When they arrive, he

takes a big swallow from one, picks up the other, stands,

moves down the bar and sits beside Tracy again.

REACTION SHOTS

Even Bill now looks up from the pool table. His expression

darkens.

ANGLE ON BAR

Tracy has clammed up -- her elbows on the bar, head between

her elbows, arms covering her ears, hands clasped behind her

neck. Duncan looks at her nervously and starts to talk again:

Duncan looks up. Bill enters the frame and stands in front

of Tracy, confronting Duncan.

CLOSEUP - DUNCAN

Looking up at Bill, his eyes red, his gaze unsteady.

WIDER ANGLE

The air is charged with tension.

Duncan doesn't know how to handle this. He looks at Bill,

half shrugs, half smiles.

Duncan looks away. A long moment passes.

Duncan doesn't move, says nothing. He swallows hard.

The bartender steps back, deciding to mind his own business.

Tracy gets up from her seat and cautiously moves even further

down the bar.

They glare at each other. The longer Duncan sits there without

moving, without saying anything, the angrier Bill gets.

REACTION SHOTS

As the tension builds.

ANGLE ON BAR

Duncan looks away.

Duncan reaches for his drink, but Bill reacts quicker. With

a swipe of his hand, he knocks the glass off the bar, and it

shatters on the floor behind the bar.

Duncan sits there, stunned, not looking up. After a long

moment, Duncan coughs. Then he turns and looks at Bill. He

purses his lips. It looks like a nervous facial movement.

Then suddenly, Duncan spits at Bill, hitting him square in

the face.

Before anyone can register what's happened, Bill lunges at

Duncan, knocking him clean off the barstool and onto the

floor.

The fight is fast, vicious and one-sided from the very start.

Pinned to the floor on his back, Duncan flails his arms

ineffectually like a panicked insect as Bill holds him in

place with a left-handed grip on the collar while his powerful

right arm, pumping up and down like a piston, pounds into

Duncan's face time and time again.

Duncan's screams diminish into pathetic, sickening groans

and the others in the bar are compelled to avert their eyes

from this brutal spectacle.

Hank has picked up a phone from beneath the bar and is dialing

a number. He turns away from the fight to talk.

Then, as suddenly as Bill first sprang at Duncan, he leaps

to his feet and turns to the bar. He reaches over and grabs

the phone from Hank, slamming it down into the cradle.

Bill takes the cloth from the bar and vigorously wipes his

face off. He snaps his fingers and points to a row of bottles

on a shelf behind the bar. Hank quickly hands him a bottle.

Bill pours himself a shot and downs it, fast. He is still

charged with adrenaline and he takes two more shots in rapid

succession, spilling the alcohol on the bar and on himself.

As Bill picks up the cloth to wipe himself off again, Tracy

stands up and quickly walks out of the bar, slamming the

door behind her.

Then he throws down the cloth, picks up the bottle, turns

and, standing over Duncan's inert form, empties half the

bottle onto him. He sets the bottle back on the bar. He grabs

Duncan and, half dragging, hurries him out the back door and

throws him into the alley where Duncan falls in a heap.

Bill storms back up to the bar and pours himself another

drink.

Hank just looks at him, doesn't answer. At the wife's silent

insistence, the elderly couple stand up to go.

Bill doesn't answer and the couple quietly leave.

Hank lowers his gaze to the floor. Bill finishes his drink.

He is still very hopped up. He pulls a few dollars from his

wallet and drops them on the counter.

He turns and strides out of the bar.

CAMERA HOLDS for a beat on Hank alone now in his empty

establishment. The phone starts to ring, presumably the police

calling back.

After several rings, Hank picks up the phone and listens.

INT. LT. GARBER'S HOUSE - NIGHT

All the lights are out inside the house, but we should just

be able to see that we are in the hall, looking at the front

door. Footsteps approach on the walk outside. A key slips

into the lock...

Inside the house we can hear faint whispering. Someone is

moving about in the darkness. Then the door swings open and

the shadowy figure of a MAN crosses the threshold. He stops

just inside.

Suddenly the lights come on and a chorus of voices cry out,

"SURPRISE!"

A broad smile breaks across the man's face. We may recognize

him as the cop from six years ago -- Charles Garber. Today

he is a lieutenant on the force and dresses casually for

work, usually in slacks, turtleneck and jacket.

Garber looks sheepishly at his hand holding the pistol he'd

drawn just before the lights came up.

Everybody starts to laugh, including Garber as he returns

the pistol to his shoulder holster.

ANGLE ON DONNA

Garber's wife. She comes out of the kitchen carrying a

birthday cake with lit candles and makes her way through the

crowd of GUESTS singing "Happy Birthday".

Everyone joins in as Donna moves forward and stands beside

her husband. Clifford is one of the guests. He has his arm

around a young BLOND who is sort of pretty despite her

tacky/plastic appearance.

When the song is over, Garber blows out the candles and hugs

and kisses his wife. Everybody cheers.

INT. GARBER'S HOUSE - STAIRWAY - SEVERAL HOURS LATER

The party is still in full swing. Garber is following Clifford

up the stairs. They are both fairly loaded by now.

Garber, in particular, has reached that stage of inebriation

where standing still is pretty hard to do.

INT. A BEDROOM

As Clifford and Garber enter. Garber turns on a light as

Clifford closes the door, shutting out the sounds of the

party below.

Garber half comically turns to go. Clifford stops him.

ANGLE ON CORNER OF BEDROOM

A BABY between a year and two years old is lying in a crib.

It opens its eyes and starts looking around.

TWO SHOT - CLIFFORD & GARBER

Garber, still moving restlessly, pats his friend on the

shoulder.

Garber stops suddenly, stunned. In an instant, he has become

stone sober.

ANGLE ON BABY

Kicking and wiggling about.

The baby opens its mouth and starts to cry.

TWO SHOT - CLIFFORD & GARBER

Garber glances over his shoulder at the baby, then turns

back to Clifford.

EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT

It is late. The block is virtually deserted. Across the street

is the exterior of a bar -- the same bar Duncan was in

earlier. Some PEOPLE are coming out of the bar. It must be

near closing time. The people turn left and walk away down

the sidewalk. Their voices diminish. Pause.

A car passes. Then the door to the bar opens again and a

woman comes out onto the sidewalk. It is Tracy. She turns to

the right and starts to walk away.

CLOSEUP - DUNCAN

He is standing in shadows across the street, watching her.

EXT. TRACY ON STREET - NIGHT

A series of shots of Tracy walking home. The CAMERA remains

consistently behind her or off to one side, sometimes DOLLYING

with her behind a row of parked cars, sometimes picking up

her passing reflection in a darkened store window.

The impression this gives is unmistakable. Curt Duncan is

following her. We do not see him, we do not hear him, yet we

know he is there. Often we can sense that the very angle

from which we see Tracy is his POV.

But Tracy is aware of nothing. We know this when the CAMERA

begins to move in front of her, once more becoming an

impersonal observer of her walk homeward, to safety.

Tension mounts as we start to expect that Duncan will jump

out at her from every alley and recessed doorway she passes.

But he doesn't.

Finally, Tracy walks up to the CAMERA at the end of a block

and turns a corner; but the CAMERA HOLDS on the dark street

she has just come up. We hear a cough which confirms that

Duncan is lurking somewhere in the shadows.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Tracy walks up the steps and enters the apartment.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING

Tracy steps into the elevator. The doors close. CAMERA HOLDS

on the elevator and watches the lights above it travel from

one to six.

O.S. we hear the door to the apartment building open and

close.

INT. SIXTH FLOOR

Tracy steps out of the elevator and walks down the hall to

her door. She fumbles through her purse for keys, then bends

over the lock to let herself in.

Behind her down the hall, Duncan appears. He watches her,

starts to move silently forward. Tracy gets the door open,

then turns and sees him. Duncan stops.

Duncan half shrugs, half smiles. Tracy edges into her door-

way. Duncan stands opposite her.

They look at each other. Duncan coughs again.

Inside Tracy's apartment, the telephone rings. Tracy turns

vaguely, indecisively, and goes to answer it.

She disappears into the apartment. O.S. she picks up the

ringing phone.

INT. TRACY'S APARTMENT

As she sits with the telephone.

She hangs up the phone, stands and turns back toward the

door. Duncan is standing right behind her.

He sits down.

Duncan looks at her for a moment, then looks about the

apartment.

Duncan doesn't move. He smiles at her.

He backs to the doorway and pauses.

He steps into the hall. Tracy closes the front door and bolts

it. She turns, leans against it and sighs.

Outside the door, Duncan's footsteps move down the hall,

pause, then come back to the door. A moment passes. Then

there is a faint knocking on the door. Tracy doesn't move.

The knocking comes again, a little louder this time. Tracy

stands and waits, scarcely breathing. After another long

moment, the footsteps finally move away.

EXT. POLICE STATION - DAY

A car pulls into the parking lot behind the station. Clifford

and Garber get out and walk into the building.

INT. POLICE STATION

Clifford and Garber walk down a hallway. Uniformed POLICEMEN

walk to and fro around them.

Garber stops at the WATCH COMMANDER'S desk and picks up some

paperwork. The WC looks up briefly and sees Clifford.

The WC looks down again. Three and a half years mean nothing

to him.

He can't remember the man's name. Garber smiles at him and

they continue walking.

INT. OFFICE - POLICE STATION

A. Clifford and Garber appear in the doorway. Clifford enters,

walks up to his old desk, opens some of the drawers -- they

are empty -- sits down in his old chair, smiles at Garber.

B. We see Clifford opening a file cabinet and taking out a

folder stuffed with notices and reports --

C. Clifford standing beside a Xerox machine running off a

copy of something --

D. Clifford standing in a hallway talking to a PATROLMAN.

Clifford has a legal pad with him and is jotting something

down on it as the patrolman speaks --

E. Clifford at his desk, making notes on the legal pad --

F. Garber is at his desk, on the phone, Clifford appears in

the doorway carrying his legal pad. He waves goodbye to Garber

who nods in response.

INT. LOBBY OF A FLOPHOUSE HOTEL

Clifford questions the DESK CLERK. He shows the clerk a photo

of Duncan taken some years ago in the mental institution.

The clerk shakes his head and starts to hand the picture

back when Clifford motions for him to keep it. As Clifford

leaves, the clerk turns the picture over...

CLOSEUP - BACK OF PICTURE

Revealing Clifford's name and phone numbers, and a twenty

dollar bill paperclipped to the back of the picture --

EXT. STREET

As Clifford pulls his car up to the curb, then consults his

legal pad --

CLOSEUP - LEGAL PAD

The top three addresses are crossed out. Clifford underlines

the fourth --

BACK TO SCENE

Clifford looks up from the pad to a bar he has pulled up in

front of -- the bar Duncan was in. It bears the address

Clifford has just underlined. Clifford gets out of his car

and walks up to the bar. A "Closed" sign is displayed in the

window. Clifford knocks on the door. After a moment, Hank

opens the door.

INT. LAUNDROMAT - DAY

There are only a few CUSTOMERS sitting around, waiting for

their wash. A BUM is stretched out on his back across one of

the tables like a corpse awaiting autopsy. This is CHEATER.

A MAINTENANCE MAN in grey work clothes enters from the back.

He opens a broom closet, takes out a bucket and mop and rolls

them toward the front of the laundromat. He stops at Cheater's

table and shakes him hard.

Cheater sits up and starts to pull himself together. An OLD

WOMAN sitting against the wall points down one of the aisles

of washing machines and says to the maintenance man:

The maintenance man goes to the end of the aisle and looks

down into the nook created by the absence of one of the

washing machines.

He nudges at whatever's inside the nook with his foot.

ANGLE ON NOOK

As Curt Duncan raises his head into the light and looks up

at the maintenance man. Overnight, his face has swollen

considerably and a bright yellow and purple discoloring around

his bruises has emerged.

He bends over and helps pull Duncan to his feet.

WIDER ANGLE

As the maintenance man guides Duncan to the door.

Duncan goes out the door. The maintenance man turns and sees

Cheater stretched out again on the table.

He pulls Cheater off the table and pushes him to the door.

EXT. LAUNDROMAT

As Cheater is pushed out onto the sidewalk.

He straightens his rags indignantly, then looks at Duncan

and grins.

Duncan looks at Cheater distrustfully and shakes his head.

Cheater shuffles off in one direction. Duncan turns and goes

in the other.

INT. TRACY'S APARTMENT - DAY

A knock at the front door. After a moment, Tracy comes into

the front hallway and, crossing to the door, stubs her toe

on the open closet door. She swears under her breath and

angrily slams the closet door shut. Then, grabbing her injured

toe, she hops to the front door.

Pause.

Pause.

Tracy unbolts the door and opens it. Clifford walks right in

and closes the door behind him.

Tracy nods.

Tracy leads him into the living room. They sit. Clifford

gives her a picture.

Clifford lets out a sigh of frustration, realizing that this

woman will continue to be difficult.

The picture falls out of Tracy's hands. She is stunned to

the point of nausea.

EXT. STREET

Duncan is standing on the sidewalk huddled close to a wall.

He is looking up at Tracy's apartment building across the

street.

POV - DUNCAN

Traveling up the wall of the building to the open window of

Tracy's apartment on the sixth floor. SLOW ZOOM IN:

INT. TRACY'S APARTMENT

CLOSEUP - TRACY

Reacting to this possibility.

She nods, hesitantly.

EXT. STREET

Duncan turns up an alley across the street from Tracy's

apartment building and disappears.

Sound over: knocking on a door.

EXT. BAR - DAY

Clifford is standing at the door. The "Closed" sign still

hangs in the window. The door opens, and Hank sticks his

head out.

Clifford violently pushes the door open. The bartender backs

off, surprised.

INT. LT. GARBER'S OFFICE - DAY

Garber is sitting behind his desk as Clifford walks in.

Pause.

Pause. Clifford sits down.

Garber leans forward in his chair and stares at Clifford. A

long moment passes. A button on the lieutenant's phone lights

up and the intercom buzzes. Garber doesn't even look down at

it. The button flashes on and off, on and off. Finally it

stops.

Pause. Garber considers another tack and follows it.

Clifford is stunned by the question, but he tries to be

casual.

Clifford glares at his friend and doesn't answer.

Garber doesn't have to be reminded of his own feelings. He

doesn't pursue the argument.

Garber nods slowly, considering it a good choice of weapons

at least.

Garber looks away for a moment. When he looks back, he just

shrugs his shoulders, "washes his hands".

INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY

A few customers sit quietly minding their own business. A

WAITRESS leans near the cash register at one end of the

counter. A transistor radio plays country music blues. The

waitress looks up as somebody enters.

It is Duncan. He moves to the counter and sits.

Snubbed, the waitress comes back and sets the cup in front

of him. She looks down at the change on the counter. There

isn't enough.

Duncan looks up at her resentfully.

Duncan glares at her. He doesn't have it.

She pushes the cup back to him. Some of the coffee spills

onto the counter.

Duncan slowly reaches for the cup, raises it to his lips.

Duncan stops, sets the cup down, pushes it away from him and

slowly rises from his seat.

Duncan and the waitress stand face to face, shooting darts

at each other. Then a MAN sitting two seats away reaches

over and places a quarter on the counter between them.

The waitress looks at the man irritatedly, then picks up the

money and moves away.

Duncan slowly sits down again. He pulls the cup back to

himself, then turns and looks at the man for a long moment,

unable to express his gratitude.

EXT. CITY STREETS - DUSK

A series of shots of BUMS, "homeless persons", hanging out,

in alleys, in the doorways of old buildings, sitting on the

sidewalk in front of liquor stores.

Then we see Duncan, alone but looking no different from the

others. He is panhandling PASSERSBY, without much success.

We see him fall into a fit of coughing that incapacitates

him for several seconds. He's obviously getting sicker.

We lose sight of Duncan as our MONTAGE continues. We see

Clifford talking to a BUM, then another. He is passing the

time combing the streets in the neighborhood of the bar.

PARK - DUSK

A handful of BUMS are sitting together on the grass passing

a bottle in a brown paper bag. Duncan is not among them, but

Cheater is there, sitting at the end of the line.

CAMERA PANS from one bum to the next as the bottle is passed.

By the time it gets to Cheater, it is empty. Cheater looks

as if he's about to cry like a baby when a hand enters the

frame from the other side -- the hand holding out to Cheater

a full bottle of wine. Cheater takes the bottle and looks up

gratefully... to see John Clifford standing beside him.

Cheater takes a long drink, then passes the bottle back down

the line.

Nobody responds.

Cheater scratches his head, and glances anxiously down the

line.

Clifford shakes his head.

Clifford stands to go. The bottle comes back to Cheater,

three-quarters down.

Clifford is gone. Cheater takes a long drink and almost

forgets that Clifford was ever there.

INT. CLIFFORD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Clifford is "suiting up" for his night's work. He is dressed

casually -- blue jeans, shirt open at the neck, sports jacket,

Adidas running shoes. He looks at himself in the mirror, is

satisfied. Then he picks up from the dresser two awl-like

instruments with short handles and long, glistening tapered

needlepoints -- his weapons. He slides them into a leather

sheath inside his jacket and turns to go.

EXT. BAR - NIGHT

It is lit up inside. The bar is open for business. Across

the street in a dark space between two buildings, Duncan is

waiting, watching the front door of the bar to see who comes

out.

INT. BAR

The place is empty but for Hank who half watches the

television over the bar, and Tracy who sits alone in a corner.

Several moments pass as both of them sit and wait.

Then, the front door starts to swing open. Someone is coming

in. Tracy and Hank both glance nervously toward the door.

A MAN'S head peeks in. He is somewhere in his forties, a

regular customer.

The customer walks up to the bar, sits down and talks quietly

with Hank.

Tracy looks nervously at her wristwatch. She stubs out her

cigarette, takes one last gulp of her drink and stands up to

go.

She walks to the bar, opens her purse and reaches inside.

They exchange a meaningful look. Then she heads for the door.

EXT. BAR

Tracy looks up and down the street, hoping to see Clifford

somewhere, afraid of glimpsing Duncan instead. Then she starts

walking quickly homeward.

EXT. STREETS

Following Tracy to her apartment. We pick up Clifford now,

and we cut back and forth between the two of them -- her

walking quickly, never looking back, and him sneaking along

several hundred feet behind her, looking everywhere for

Duncan, whom we never see.

EXT. TRACY'S APARTMENT

She walks up the steps and enters.

INT. SIXTH FLOOR

Tracy steps off the elevator and goes to her door. She fumbles

through her purse for the key. Then she hears footsteps on

the stairs. She turns. It's Clifford.

Tracy shakes her head.

She is starting to come apart, and she suddenly leans on

Clifford for support.

Tracy stands there for several seconds to regain control of

herself. Then she steps away and turns back to the door.

Tracy gets the door unlocked. She pushes it open.

INT. TRACY'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALL

Tracy steps in. Clifford stays in the doorway. They are still

whispering.

Tracy closes the door and throws the bolt. Then she walks

into the apartment and out of frame. CAMERA STAYS in the

hallway. We can hear Tracy moving about O.S.

Then, as if on its own, the door to the hall closet slowly

swings open...

...until we can see Duncan standing inside the closet.

INT. KITCHEN

Tracy is putting some coffee on. Then she removes her coat

and walks out of the kitchen.

INT. FRONT HALL

Tracy goes up to the closet with her coat. The door is closed.

She opens it. She hangs up her coat and closes the door again.

Then she turns and starts walking out of the hallway to the

living room.

As she is rounding the corner into the living room, she walks

right into Duncan. She barely has time to gasp before he

clamps his hand over her mouth and pushes her against the

wall.

As she isn't struggling, he starts to loosen up on her.

He takes his hand away from her mouth, lets go of her, and

slowly, cautiously steps back. Tracy looks at him for a

breathless moment, her eyes wild with fear. Then she screams.

Duncan jumps back, stunned, frightened and confused. Tracy

doesn't move. She just keeps screaming hysterically.

EXT. STREET

Tracy's screams carry out into the night as Clifford races

across the street and into the apartment building.

INT. TRACY'S APARTMENT

Duncan runs to a window, throws it open and climbs out onto

the fire escape.

INTERCUT - APARTMENT STAIRS AND FIRE ESCAPE

As Clifford bounds up the stairs, flight after flight, and

Duncan tears down the fire escape.

INT. SIXTH FLOOR

The screaming has stopped when Clifford reaches Tracy's door.

He grabs the doorknob and heaves himself against the door.

It's bolted shut.

Clifford pulls one of the needles from his jacket and hammers

it into the lock. The bolt springs and Clifford runs into

the apartment.

INT. TRACY'S APARTMENT

As Clifford bursts in. Tracy gestures toward the window.

Clifford runs to it and sticks his head out.

POV - CLIFFORD

Duncan is gone.

BACK TO SCENE

Clifford runs to a window on another wall and looks out onto

the street.

POV - CLIFFORD

No sign of the Englishman.

BACK TO SCENE

Clifford runs out of the apartment, yanking his needle from

the lock as he passes the door, and charges back down the

stairs.

Tracy moves to the door and closes it. She is breathing

heavily.

O.S. we hear the angry sizzle of coffee spilling onto the

hot stove, as Tracy goes to get it.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING

Clifford comes out, looks around and moves rapidly up the

street.

EXT. A STREET

Duncan is hurrying along, dodging in and out of people, trying

to move quickly but not draw attention to himself...

EXT. ANOTHER STREET

Clifford is travelling along the sidewalk, crossing the

street, looking everywhere...

EXT. ALLEYWAY

Duncan is running up the alley. He comes to a stop beside

some piled up trash cans. He leans against the brick wall of

the building, huffing and puffing. He is frightened, but he

feels safe for now. He slowly slides down the wall to the

ground...

INT. MENTAL HOSPITAL - DAY

Duncan is curled up in the corner of a bare cell with padded

walls. He is in a strait-jacket. His head is shaved. We can't

tell what he is thinking, except that he's obviously deeply

frightened and cannot understand what's happening to him.

INT. A ROOM - NIGHT

This is the children's bedroom in Dr. Mandrakis' house of

six years ago. It is dark. Two small beds occupy one corner

of the room. We can see two small lumps on the beds, but no

more.

Duncan sits in the foreground with a telephone on his lap.

He is dialing a number. The phone rings three times before

it is answered -- or rather, picked up, because there is no

voice on the other end. After several seconds the phone is

hung up.

Duncan hangs up and thinks for a moment. He picks up the

phone and dials again. This time he gets a busy signal. He

hangs up, stands and goes to the door. He opens it slowly,

peers out. Jill's voice can be heard faintly talking to the

operator, asking for the police.

Duncan closes the door and comes back into the room, mumbling.

He goes to the window, looks out. Then he goes to the

children's beds.

CLOSEUP - DUNCAN

As he raises the covers and stares down into the CAMERA.

EXT. DECK OF A SHIP - MORNING

A freighter, broad and low, arduously cuts through the water.

Early morning mist hangs over the deck which is empty but

for a lone FIGURE standing on the prow.

MIDDLE SHOT - LONE FIGURE

It is Curt Duncan. He is looking out over the front of the

ship. Another SEAMAN comes up behind him and claps him on

the shoulder.

Duncan moves away, wanting to be left alone.

He walks away laughing.

DUNCAN'S POV

The coast of Southern California emerges through the mist. A

foghorn blows somewhere in the distance.

CLOSE-UP - DUNCAN

As he peers ahead with inscrutable interest.

INT. ANOTHER ROOM - NIGHT

Dark. A little BOY is lying in bed, apparently asleep. This

is Curt Duncan as a child.

Some voices approach in the hallway outside the bedroom.

They are gruff, with heavy English accents, but subdued; a

MAN and a WOMAN, well into middle-age.

The boy's eyes open as he listens:

From outside, a key enters the lock of the bedroom door and

turns. The bolt slips and the door is securely shut.

The boy sits up in bed, apprehensive. In TIGHT SHOTS of the

floor we see a rat come out from under the bed, then another.

They make "chit-chit" noises as they begin to explore. One

of them maybe goes up on its hind legs and nibbles on the

bedpost. Then we see two more rats appear.

We go for a TIGHT SHOT of the boy on top of the bed. The

"chit-chit" noises grow steadily louder as the boy's

apprehension turns to fear, then to terror. The boy starts

to whimper.

Suddenly, we cut back to a WIDE SHOT of the room. The floor

is crawling with rats, hundreds of them. The "chit-chit"

rises to practically a roar as the boy, alone on top of the

bed, begins to wail.

The room seems to darken, and the boy becomes just a little

white speck in it. The focus is turned. The picture becomes

a black and white blur.

EXT. ALLEYWAY - NIGHT - THE PRESENT

At first all that can be seen is a white blur against a black

screen. The previous sound of a boy crying increases. Then

the blur grows larger, coming more into focus as the entire

screen image moves toward normal definition. Finally, we

know we are back in the alleyway, that it is night, and that

the white blur is actually a little BOY lost, sobbing

uncontrollably.

CLOSEUP - DUNCAN

Awakening to the scene, coming back to reality. He is

confused.

WIDER ANGLE ON DUNCAN AND BOY

The boy continues sobbing, moving about in little circles.

Duncan, amazed at what he sees, slowly crawls out from the

wall on his hands and knees, crawls toward the weeping child,

staring at it with a strange look on his face.

Suddenly the boy stops crying and looks at Duncan quizzically,

hesitantly. They are less than a foot apart, almost face to

face. Together they form a kind of frozen tableau. Something

close to sympathy crosses the killer's expression, and the

boy, likewise, achieves a faint sense of recognition.

Then, just as suddenly, the boy starts wailing again and he

runs off down the alleyway. Duncan watches him disappear.

Then he slowly pulls himself to his feet.

EXT. STREET

Clifford is coming up the sidewalk. As Clifford crosses the

entrance to an alleyway, the boy comes running out and almost

collides with him. Clifford grabs the boy and looks down at

him. Then he passes the wailing child off on a nearby

PEDESTRIAN and runs up into the alley.

EXT. ANOTHER STREET

Duncan is hurrying along the sidewalk. Something makes him

look up.

POV - DUNCAN

He is looking at a neon "Jesus Saves" sign above the doorway

to an inner city mission.

BACK ON DUNCAN

As he stares at the sign.

Duncan turns to see Cheater elatedly hobbling up to him.

Duncan pulls his arm free.

Duncan pulls free again and heads toward the mission.

Duncan enters the mission and Cheater stands out on the

sidewalk for a moment, bitterly frustrated.

Several PEDESTRIANS stop and gape at this sudden outburst.

EXT. ANOTHER STREET

Clifford comes out of a derelict hotel, looks up and down

the street and hurries off, not giving up the chase.

INT. MISSION - MOMENTS LATER

A MAN is leading Duncan to the bathroom. Duncan enters slowly

and goes to one of the wash basins where there is an old

razor blade and a can of shaving cream. Duncan picks up the

razor for a moment and looks at it. He is lost in thought.

Then he sets it down and turns on the tap water.

He glances at himself in the mirror and is suddenly transfixed

by his own image. He looks deeply into the mirror for several

seconds. Then he starts to cry, and having begun, a flood of

emotions comes pouring out of him. He drops to his knees.

The man comes running back into the bathroom. He holds Duncan

and helps pull him back to his feet.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Cheater is trudging along the sidewalk, hands in pockets,

head lowered. He looks up and sees something that brings him

back to life.

POV - CHEATER

Clifford is standing on the corner up ahead, looking around.

WIDE ANGLE ON STREET

Cheater calls out and starts to run toward Clifford.

Clifford turns, sees Cheater.

INT. MISSION - NIGHT

The "sleeping dorm". It is a large empty room. Thirty or so

OUTCASTS are stretched out on the bare floor in the darkness.

Their combined snoring/wheezing creates a steady, ghastly

din.

The door at the far end of the hall opens. A figure steps in

and quietly closes the door behind him. He stands for a moment

taking in the scene, letting his eyes adjust to the darkness.

Then he slowly creeps forward to the prone body of the nearest

sleeper.

CLOSEUP - FIGURE

It is Clifford. He moves stealthily from one body to the

next. In one hand he carries a small flashlight. He turns

the bodies over just long enough to shine the light in their

faces and identify who they are, or rather who they are not.

Then he moves on. In his other hand he holds a small, gleaming

Jimmy needle.

CLOSEUP - DUNCAN

He's sleeping, but his eyes suddenly open, sensing danger.

He turns over and sees the dark figure of Clifford slowly

advancing toward him.

WIDER ANGLE

Clifford keeps coming, closer and closer to where Duncan

lies. He is but six or seven bodies away when Duncan jumps

up suddenly and bolts for the door.

Clifford looks up, sees the fleeing figure and charges after

it.

INT. CORRIDORS

Racing through a maze of narrow hallways, Duncan can't stop

to think where he's going. Clifford is barreling after him

some forty yards behind.

Duncan rounds a corner and ten yards up ahead, the hallway

deadends in a set of double doors. Duncan has no choice but

to hurl himself against the doors. They yield and he goes

through them.

Four seconds later, Clifford comes to the same doors and

pushes through to the other side.

INT. CHURCH

As Clifford comes through the doors which are a side entrance

into the chancel of this large, gothic-style church. Behind

him now, is the altar. Before him stretches the nave of the

edifice with its rows of pews, its dimly glowing stained

glass windows, and way in the back, its choir loft. At regular

intervals, tiny shafts of light pierce the darkness from on

high.

There is no sign of Duncan, but Clifford knows he must be in

here, hiding somewhere. He slowly walks forward to the front

of the chancel.

Pause. Duncan doesn't come out. Clifford holds very still.

He hears nothing. He speaks again and his voice echoes through

the large empty church.

CLOSEUP - DUNCAN

Hiding beneath a pew. He hears the name "Mandrakis" and it

registers like a thunderbolt. He silently mouths the name

"Mandrakis".

Then he hears Clifford's footsteps approaching.

ANGLE ON CLIFFORD

Slowly moving up the center aisle, looking from side to side

into the pews.

Clifford moves closer and closer to Duncan's row until

finally, Duncan can bear it no longer. He jumps up from

beneath the pew and runs.

Clifford chases him through the pews and up the aisles to

the front of the church. He is clutching a needle in both

hands, ready to strike.

Duncan flees through a narrow door off to the side of the

church.

INT. BELL TOWER

Duncan faces a spiraling stone staircase. He has no choice

but to climb them, higher and higher, the sound of Clifford's

angry footsteps always coming up behind him.

Finally, Duncan can climb no higher. He is at the top of the

bell tower. A lanceted opening in the stone wall ahead of

him looks out over the narrow shaft of the tower. Above him

are the huge iron bells. A rope hangs down from the bells,

dangling all the way down the shaft, forty or fifty feet to

the floor of the church.

Clifford is bounding up the last flight of steps to get him.

Duncan has little choice. He is trapped. Just before Clifford

reaches him, Duncan leaps out into the shaft and catches the

bell rope.

The bell starts to clang as Duncan, hanging in mid air, swings

back and forth within the narrow shaft. Clifford leans way

out through the lancet window and takes a swipe at Duncan,

but the madman is just beyond his reach and hurriedly climbing

down the rope.

Clifford reaches out and tries to grab at the rope. At last,

he gets it, and he shakes it violently to get Duncan to lose

his grip and be dashed against the stone floor below.

But Duncan holds firm, climbing ever downward. The bell

continues to clang, sending its alarm out into the night.

Then Clifford braces himself and slowly, laboriously begins

to haul up on the rope.

Clifford gains momentum until Duncan is being pulled up faster

than he is climbing down. Still twenty feet off the ground,

Duncan lets go of the rope and plummets to the hard stone

floor.

Then PEOPLE come rushing into the church, awakened by the

commotion of the bells. Duncan rolls into the shadows and

drags himself out a side door, while Clifford plans his own

escape from the bell tower.

EXT. ALLEYWAY NEAR CHURCH - NIGHT

Clifford runs up the alleyway, looks around and finally

realizes he's lost his prey.

EXT. ANOTHER ALLEYWAY

Duncan is hidden deep in the shadows of a nook between two

buildings, catching his breath. CAMERA MOVES IN on him, and

we see him looking the craziest he's ever been. He shakes

uncontrollably and begins to mumble, softly at first, then

getting louder. He's falling back into the grips of Guy du

Marraux.

EXT. CITY - MORNING

A. All is still and quiet as soft, warm sunlight pours into

the dirty streets and alleyways. In the background, the bell

tower of the church rises above the skyline.

B. We see a SHOT of the park -- all the bums are asleep.

C. Then a SHOT of the mission -- its front door open, the

sidewalk empty.

D. Then the bar, where the same peaceful mood prevails.

E. Then the alleyway where we last saw Curt Duncan. Now he

is gone.

F. Then the exterior of Tracy's apartment building. Clifford's

car is parked out front.

INT. TRACY'S APARTMENT

Tracy and Clifford are sitting at a small table in the

kitchen, looking haggard, drinking coffee.

They look at each other. Clifford is a sympathetic listener.

Pause.

Taking his cue, Clifford slowly rises.

Tracy looks up at him questioningly, wishing she could feel

as sure about it as he does.

Tracy takes his hand. They shake warmly.

Clifford turns back to her.

Clifford smiles at her gently. He knows exactly what she

means.

Clifford takes a few steps, turns back, looks at her.

Clifford nods his head slightly, as if registering this in

his memory.

They smile at each other for a second then Clifford leaves

and Tracy sits alone in her kitchen, listening to him go,

hearing the door close behind him.

EXT. STREET - DAY

CLOSE UP on a section of a newspaper lying in the gutter. A

pair of feet enters the frame and stands beside the newspaper.

We hear a familiar cough. Then a trembling hand reaches down

and picks up the newspaper.

Pause. Something in the newspaper has caught his eye. Then

the feet shuffle out of frame.

FADE IN:

EXT. STREET - AFTERNOON

A modest middle-income neighborhood where young married

couples buy their first home and start their family.

CAMERA is facing down the quiet street. In the foreground,

on the street, two small CHILDREN, a little boy and a little

girl, are playing. They are adorable kids.

CAMERA PANS ninety degrees with the children as they run out

of the street and up the sidewalk to their house.

A TITLE APPEARS across the bottom of the screen:

TITLE FADES as the children push open the front door and

enter the house.

INT. HOUSE - FOLLOWING CHILDREN

They noisily and excitedly make their way to the kitchen.

The children are four and two and a half years old, STEVIE

and JUNE respectively.

INT. KITCHEN

As the kids enter, their MOTHER is working at the stove, her

back to CAMERA.

The mother turns around. It is Jill Johnson!

CAMERA MOVES IN on her as she comes forward, bends down,

kisses Stevie, and picks up June. Jill looks older, more

mature, but still very pretty. She is Mrs. John Lockhart

now, and has left her memories of the past behind her.

A wall phone in the kitchen starts to ring. Stevie goes to

answer it.

It is JOHN LOCKHART on the phone.

Jill, by this time, has come to the phone. She is still

holding June.

Stevie hands the phone to Jill.

Jill is very happy about this.

As Jill hangs up the phone, Stevie pipes up O.S.

EXT. DR. MANDRAKIS' HOUSE - NIGHT

Clifford's car is parked in the driveway, and we see him

getting out. He goes to the front door -- the porch light is

on and perhaps one other lamp somewhere inside the otherwise

dark house. He rings the bell, waits, rings again...

Finally the door is opened by the Houseboy.

Pause.

Clifford takes a business card from his pocket and gives it

to the Houseboy.

The Houseboy reads the card as Clifford walks back to his

car. Then the Houseboy closes the front door.

Clifford pauses beside his car for a moment, looking back at

the rich, dark home.

INT. JILL'S HOUSE - CHILDREN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The children are in bed. Jill is sitting next to Stevie.

Only a nightlight is on.

Jill kisses him.

Jill stands up and goes over to June's bed.

Jill bends closer to her daughter. O.S. the doorbell rings.

Jill stands up and leaves.

INT. FRONT HALL

As Jill comes down the stairs. CAROL, the sitter, is at the

foot of the stairs with John. Carol has an armful of

schoolbooks.

Jill crosses to a hall table, picks up a phone book, flips

through it, then writes on a notepad beside the phone. Over

this action...

She puts down the pad and crosses to a closet where she takes

out a lightweight coat.

Jill shoves the coat into his stomach. Smiling, he takes the

coat and dutifully helps her on with it.

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT

John and Jill walk to the station wagon in the driveway as

Carol shuts the front door in the background. Just before

Jill gets into the car, she takes a look back at the house --

there is a moment's hesitance, and then she gets in the car.

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

Carol picks up the phone and carries it into the living room

with her. As she does it, we see lying on the phone table,

the newspaper clipping with Jill's picture, and headline:

"Jill Lockhart Chairs Community UNICEF Drive."

She puts the phone down, then her books, then herself. She

dials a number. Her BOYFRIEND answers.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

An Italian Restaurant. Quiet music, soft lights, red and

white checkered tablecloths, candles, a smokey and seductive

atmosphere.

DOLLY with a LATIN WAITER carrying a huge tray of food over-

head. He passes right by the table where Jill and John are

sitting. John watches him take the food to someone else.

The WAITER arrives with their food.

The waiter looks up, offended.

They ignore him. He moves away. John digs right in.

John flags down a passing WAITER and signals that their wine

glasses need filling.

John leans forward and whispers in her ear.

John pauses, looks at her.

The MAITRE D' has come up to the table. John stops suddenly.

They are both very chagrined.

John starts to get up. Jill grabs his arm.

Jill stands up and follows the Maitre D' through the other

tables to the telephone. She picks up the receiver. CAMERA

MOVES in on her.

Pause.

Jill screams and falls to the floor.

ANGLE ON JOHN

Around him, other DINERS fall instantly silent and wonder

what is going on. WAITERS stop dead in their tracks.

John leaps up from his seat and dashes through the tables

like a madman. Suddenly the restaurant comes alive with

excitement and alarm.

ANGLE ON JILL

As John runs up and drops to his knees beside her. She is

shaking and sobbing uncontrollably.

Other PEOPLE have crowded around and are making urgent noises

now about calling the police, an ambulance, etc. John tries

to cut through the confusion and anxiety.

Jill nods.

John grabs the telephone and quickly dials a number. The

crowd tries to quiet down, as much to hear for themselves as

to let John talk. The phone rings and rings. Finally...

Pause.

Long pause. They wait for her answer. Jill is listening into

the receiver now, too.

Jill is confused. John breathes a guarded sigh of relief.

Jill takes the phone.

Jill gives her husband a look. John takes the phone again.

Jill is violently shaking her head. John silences her with a

gesture.

Carol O.S. puts the phone down. Then there is silence on the

other end. The crowd of people around Jill and John begin to

shuffle and murmur. John tries to keep them quiet while

listening into the phone.

Then TWO POLICEMEN come forward through the crowd. One of

them kneels down to John and Jill who are still on the floor.

This means nothing to Policeman #1.

Policeman #2 kneels down now.

As the two policemen and John mumble between themselves,

Jill takes the telephone.

She presses the receiver tighter to her ear.

John quiets down the policeman. Jill can now hear what she

couldn't a second ago.

ZOOM into the telephone until we can also hear what Jill is

reacting to. It grows louder and louder... A dial tone.

EXT. LOCKHART HOUSE - NIGHT

John and Jill pull up in the station wagon followed by a

squad car -- no sirens or lights. They all get out and rush

for the front door.

John pulls out his key to open the door... and discovers

that it's unlocked. Cautiously, they step inside.

INT. FRONT HALL

They look into the living room. Carol isn't there.

No answer. The policemen tentatively draw their guns. Jill

bolts up the stairway.

Policeman #2 runs up after her.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALL

As Jill runs down to the children's bedroom followed by

Policeman #2. She opens the door and rushes inside.

INT. CHILDREN'S BEDROOM

The children are in bed, asleep. Policeman #2 stands in the

doorway as Jill goes up to June and bends over her.

Jill kisses her gently on the forehead.

June closes her eyes and immediately falls back to sleep.

Jill walks over to Stevie's bed and looks down at him. He

turns slightly in his sleep.

Satisfied that her children are safe, Jill pulls up the covers

on Stevie and then walks slowly out of the bedroom.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALL

Jill quietly pulls the door shut, and Policeman #2 walks

back up the hallway. Jill leans against the wall and buries

her face in her hands. She is drained. She starts to cry.

INT. BEDROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

Jill is sitting on a corner of the bed, looking at the floor.

John sits on the other corner, facing away from her, slowly

unbuttoning his shirt. After a long silence...

Pause.

John turns and moves over beside her.

REACTION SHOT of Jill. She is shocked.

John stands up and goes to his dresser.

He takes a revolver from the dresser drawer and emphatically

checks the action. Then he walks to his side of the bed and

sets the pistol on his bedside table.

Pause. Jill tries to smile.

Jill nods. John leans forward and kisses her.

He gets up and walks out of the room talking.

John comes back into the bedroom with a glass of water and a

couple of pills in his hand.

CLOSEUP - JILL

As she takes the pills and swallows them, one at a time.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

The lounge area in the back of the station. At one table,

three OFFICERS are playing bridge. Garber with his back to

CAMERA rounds out their game.

At a nearby table closer to CAMERA, Policeman #1 is working

on a crossword puzzle. POLICEMAN #3, sitting next to him, is

reading a paperback novel.

Policeman #3 thinks briefly, then goes back to his novel.

Policeman #2 enters the room carrying a printout of some

sort.

ANGLE ON GARBER

At the bridge table, perking up his ears, looking around.

Garber is keeping only half an eye on the card game. He pulls

a card from his hand and throws it down.

Garber hastily picks up his card and throws down another.

Garber throws down another card.

Garber throws down his cards. He stands up and approaches

Policeman #2.

Policeman #2 hands the sheet of paper to Garber. Garber

quickly scans the information.

Garber exits to his office. Policeman #2 walks over to where

Policeman #1 is still sitting, working the crossword.

INT. GARBER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Garber sits thinking for a moment. He is trying to come to a

decision. He reaches for the phone and dials. It rings and

then is picked up.

INT. LOCKHART HOUSE - NIGHT

A shot of the downstairs hall. All is dark and still, very

still.

INT. BEDROOM

Jill is tossing in her sleep. John is fast asleep next to

her, on his side facing away from her. Then, Jill wakes up.

She is heavily sedated, groggy. She hardly knows where she

is at first.

She pulls herself up to a sitting position on the side of

the bed. She tries to gather her wits. Then she gets up and

walks slowly out of the room.

FOLLOWING JILL

Through the upstairs hallway, down the staircase and toward

the kitchen. The darkness around her is ominous, threatening.

She stops at the dining room window and looks out. On the

street a patrol car slowly passes and disappears down the

block.

INT. KITCHEN

Jill enters, turns on the light, opens a cupboard and takes

out a glass. She goes to the refrigerator and opens it.

Suddenly, the lights go out.

Jill closes the refrigerator door and goes and turns on

another light. Apparently, only a lightbulb has blown. Jill

unscrews the burned-out bulb from its socket and throws it

in the trash.

She leaves the kitchen.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALL

Jill walks to a hall closet and opens it. A light comes on

inside as she does so. A puzzled, half-startled expression

comes onto her face.

JILL'S POV

Inside the closet, half the hangers with coats, etc., are on

the floor.

Sound over: A telephone being dialed.

INT. CLIFFORD'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Clifford has just finished dialing the phone. He waits,

nothing happens. Then a strange, siren-like noise comes out

of the telephone. Clifford listens, then hangs up.

He picks up the .38 he has lying on the desk and idly starts

flipping the cartridge chamber with one of his jimmy needles.

After a moment, he lays the gun down and picks up the phone

again, this time calling the OPERATOR.

The operator dials. There is a pause. Then the same strange

noise cuts in.

INT. LOCKHART HOME - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT

Jill is walking down the hall to the children's bedroom. She

opens the door.

INT. CHILDREN'S BEDROOM

As Jill quietly enters. The children are asleep. Jill goes

to June and tucks her in. Then she walks over to Stevie's

bed. He is sleeping, but with a Sugar Daddy in his hand.

Jill looks down at him, again puzzled. She leans over, takes

the Sugar Daddy and gently wakes him.

He closes his eyes and is asleep.

Jill stands up, turns and starts to walk out of the room.

Halfway across the floor, Jill stops. She stands rigid as a

thought penetrates her own drowsiness. She turns very slowly

and moves to the closet in the children's bedroom.

She stands before it a moment. Then she reaches her hand

forward for the knob on the closet door. She very slowly

pulls the door open. She looks inside. There is nothing.

Jill quietly closes the closet door and leaves the room.

INT. BEDROOM

Jill enters. John is still asleep facing the wall. Jill gets

into bed, sitting up. She is wide awake now. She sits for a

moment in the darkness, thinking.

Then she reaches for the princess phone on the bedside table.

She doesn't get a dial tone. She quietly pushes the phone's

disconnect button up and down several times. Still no dial

tone.

Jill hangs up and thinks for another moment, apprehension

creeping over her face.

Then, in the darkness of the bedroom, she begins to hear the

muttering of a man's voice, low and deep. It is Duncan in

the throes of Guy du Marraux.

Jill freezes. As the voice gets steadily louder and more

menacing, her attention focuses on the door to the bedroom

closet which is a couple of inches ajar.

She reaches for the bedside lamp and turns it on, never taking

her eyes away from the closet door. As soon as the light

comes on, the voice stops.

Her eyes still riveted to the door, Jill grabs her husband's

shoulder and shakes him, her voice cracking with fear.

The body beside her stirs, rolls over, looks at her hideously.

It is Duncan!!

Jill shrieks, and makes a move to leap out of the bed.

Duncan, the hideous and terrifying sound of his madness

grumbling out of his throat, manages to grab the back of her

nightgown.

As Jill struggles to get off the bed, the gown rips slightly

while she fights to get away.

Duncan rolls to her side of the bed and manages to grab Jill's

ankle while letting go of the gown. It causes Jill to lose

her balance and tumble onto the floor just short of the

doorway leading out of the room.

Duncan is on her in a flash, clutching at her and moving his

hands for her throat. Jill screams again. It is the desperate

sound of a woman facing certain death.

Suddenly, two quick shots ring out, overwhelming all other

sound. Duncan falls back with a groan and a thud.

Out of the darkness of the hallway steps Clifford, pistol in

hand. He crosses to Duncan. He is dead. Then Clifford walks

around the room to the far side of the bed and looks down.

On the narrow strip of floor between the bed and the wall

lies John. Clifford nudges the body with his foot. John stirs,

as if he has been knocked unconscious, but it will be some

time yet before he comes to.

Clifford starts to walk out of the room, stepping over

Duncan's body, edging past Jill who is propped up in the

doorway, sobbing hysterically.

Then he is gone.

As Jill sits there unable to rein in her emotions, June and

Stevie toddle up to her groggily from the hallway.

Jill clutches her children to her heaving breast and buries

her face between them.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALL

Looking through the open front doorway into the quiet night

beyond.

